<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061122_10-K_edgar_data_77776_0000950123-06-014446_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>7599527</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>3297901</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>20702</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2808013</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>203</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>22</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-06-014446.hdr.sgml : 20061122
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061122172732
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-06-014446
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		26
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061122
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061122

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PHH CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000077776
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTION [6159]
		IRS NUMBER:				520551284
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MD
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07797
		FILM NUMBER:		061237217

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3000 LEADENHALL ROAD
		CITY:			MT. LAUREL
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08054
		BUSINESS PHONE:		856-917-1744

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3000 LEADENHALL ROAD
		CITY:			MT. LAUREL
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08054

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PHH GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880913

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PETERSON HOWELL & HEATHER INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19790121

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GwQhGjHoBknaCNEpBW9ZrbcPzZYMCLNXuNkHkrcXf/p5lO4uRTcX/c3XbmvS0AhH
 /usES2/tfg/vC6h0shwbug==

 0000950123-06-014446.txt : 20061122

10-K
 1
 y26027e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission File
No.  1-7797  

PHH CORPORATION 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

MARYLAND  

52-0551284  

(State or other jurisdiction of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification Number)  

3000 LEADENHALL ROAD 
    MT. LAUREL, NEW JERSEY 
       (Address of principal executive offices)  

08054 
       (Zip Code)  

856-917-1744 

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE
ACT: 

Title of Each Class  
       
      Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered  

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share 

The New York Stock Exchange 

Preference Stock Purchase Rights 

The New York Stock Exchange 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE
ACT: 

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and
 large accelerated filer  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
filer              Accelerated
filer              Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes              No   

The aggregate market value of our Common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2006 was
$1.472 billion.

As of November 10, 2006, there were 53,506,822 shares
of PHH Common stock outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference: None.

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Item    
       
      Description  
       
      Page    

Explanatory Note  

2 

Cautionary Note Regarding
    Forward-Looking Statements  

5 

PART I   

1  

Business  

7 

1A  

Risk Factors  

33 

1B  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

46 

2  

Properties  

46 

3  

Legal Proceedings  

46 

4  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

47 

PART II   

5  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities  

47 

6  

Selected Financial Data  

48 

7  

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

50 

7A  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    about Market Risk  

92 

8  

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

96 

9  

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

181 

9A  

Controls and Procedures  

181 

9B  

Other Information  

185 

PART III   

10  

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant  

185 

11  

Executive Compensation  

194 

12  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

205 

13  

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  

207 

14  

Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

209 

PART IV   

15  

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules  

210 

Signatures  

211 

Exhibit Index  

212 

EX-2.1: AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER    
     EX-4.3: INDENTURE    
     EX-4.4: SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO.1    
     EX-10.1: BASE INDENTURE    
     EX-10.2: SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO.1    
     EX-10.3: SERIES 1999-3 INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT    
     EX-10.47: AMENDED AND RESTATED COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.66: TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.67: ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.68: PORTFOLIO SERVICING AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.69: LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.70: LOAN SUBSERVICING AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.71: SERVICING RIGHTS PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.74: RESOLUTION OF COMPENSATION COMMITTEE    
     EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-31.I.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-31.I.2: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-99.2: GLOSSARY OF TERMS    

1

Table of Contents   

Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise
requires, the  Company,   PHH, 
 we,   our  or  us  means PHH
Corporation, a Maryland corporation, and its subsidiaries.
During 2006, our former parent company, Cendant Corporation,
changed its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. (see Note 27,
 Subsequent Events  in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2005
( Form  10-K  
however, within this
Form  10-K, 
PHH s former parent company, now known as Avis Budget
Group, Inc. (NYSE: CAR) is referred to as
 Cendant.  

EXPLANATORY NOTE 

Except with respect to our financial statements for periods
prior to the occurrence of such events, or unless the context
otherwise requires, the information presented in this
Form  10-K 
describes our business as it existed following: (i) the
commencement of our operations as an independent, publicly
traded company pursuant to a spin-off (the  Spin-Off )
from Cendant effective February 1, 2005; (ii) our
internal reorganization prior to the Spin-Off pursuant to which
Cendant contributed its former appraisal business, Speedy Title
and Appraisal Review Services LLC ( STARS ), an entity
previously under common control, to us, and our distribution of
our former relocation and fuel card businesses to Cendant;
(iii) the completion of the spin-off by Cendant of its real
estate services division, Realogy Corporation
( Realogy ), into an independent, publicly traded
company (the  Realogy Spin-Off ) effective
July 31, 2006 (see  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Realogy  for more information); and
(iv) the change in our reportable operating segments from
two segments, a Mortgage Services segment and a Fleet Management
Services segment, to three segments, a Mortgage Production
segment, a Mortgage Servicing segment and a Fleet Management
Services segment, effective December 31, 2005. As a result
of the change in our reportable operating segments, the
financial information for our former Mortgage Services segment
in our financial statements for periods prior to
December 31, 2005 have been restated to reflect the
separation of our Mortgage Services segment into a Mortgage
Production segment and a Mortgage Servicing segment. All prior
period segment information has been revised for comparability to
reflect our new segment presentation.

Our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures
included in this
Form  10-K  have
been updated to (i) reflect a reclassification of our
former relocation and fuel card businesses, which were
distributed to Cendant, as discontinued operations, in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets 
( SFAS No. 144  and (ii) include the
financial position and results of operations of STARS in our
Consolidated Financial Statements in continuing operations for
all periods presented and accounted for as a transfer of net
assets between entities under common control. As a result of the
changes to our business, the historical financial information
for periods prior to the Spin-Off is not necessarily indicative
of what our results of operations, financial position or cash
flows will be in the future.

In addition, we are restating our Consolidated Financial
Statements and related disclosures for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, as further discussed in
Note 2,  Prior Period Adjustments  in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K.  Certain
of the restatement adjustments relate to entries we previously
believed were prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ), but
which were subsequently determined to be errors, or we had
concluded were immaterial errors to our Consolidated Financial
Statements in prior periods. Certain restatement adjustments
affecting our audited annual financial statements for periods
prior to December 31, 2003 have also been reflected in
 Item 6. Selected Financial Data  appearing
herein. Certain restatement adjustments also affected our
unaudited quarterly Consolidated Financial Statements for the
quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004,
September 30, 2004, March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005
and September 30, 2005 previously filed in our Quarterly
Reports on
Form  10-Q.  These
restatement adjustments have been reflected in Note 26,
 Selected Quarterly Financial Data  
(unaudited)  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K  and,
with respect to the quarters ended March 31, 2005,
June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005, will be
reflected in our Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006, respectively, which we plan to file
subsequent to the filing of this
Form  10-K.  All
amounts in this
Form  10-K  affected
by the restatement adjustments reflect such amounts as restated.

2

Table of Contents   

We have not amended our Annual Reports on
Form  10-K  or our
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for
periods affected by the restatement adjustments, and
accordingly, the Consolidated Financial Statements and related
financial information contained in such reports should not be
relied upon. Further, the audit reports of Deloitte &
Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm,
relating to our financial statements in those annual reports
similarly should not be relied upon.

The aggregate impact of all of the identified accounting
adjustments for corrections of errors on our balance sheet is an
increase of approximately $36 million in our
Stockholders  equity at September 30, 2005, the date
of our last publicly reported financial statements. The
adjustments generally fall into the following categories:
adjustments in connection with (i) accounting for the
allocation of Goodwill and other intangible assets associated
with a 2001 business combination; (ii) exclusion of
mortgage reinsurance premiums within the capitalization of
mortgage servicing rights; (iii) accounting for the revenue
recognition of loans sold to a special purpose entity;
(iv) accounting for derivatives and hedging activity;
(v) the timing of recognition of motor company monies that
impact our basis in leased vehicles and the depreciation
methodologies applied to certain of our leased vehicles and
(vi) other miscellaneous errors. Additionally, adjustments
were also recorded for the income tax effect of the restatement
adjustments.

The net impact of the restatement on Net (loss) income for the
nine months ended September 30, 2005, the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 and years prior to
December 31, 2003 and the restatement adjustments recorded
directly to Total stockholders  equity accounts are set
forth below:

(1)  
     
    Represents cumulative adjustments to Stockholders  equity
    accounts as of September 30, 2005, other than adjustments
    recognized through the statements of income. 

(2)  
     
    Represents cumulative adjustments to Stockholders  equity
    accounts as of September 30, 2005. 

(3)  
     
    The pre-tax restatement adjustments in this presentation include
    a reduction of pre-tax income of $60 million, which is
    reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as the
    Cumulative effect of accounting change ($35 million, net of
    $25 million of income taxes) which should have been
    reported at the time of the adoption 

3

Table of Contents   

of Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
    Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable
    Interest Entities  ( FIN 46 ) in 2003. 

The net impact of the restatement on Total stockholders 
equity as of September 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and
2003 and periods prior to December 31, 2003 is set forth
below:

A detailed description of the adjustment items and tables
showing the effects of the restatement adjustments are set forth
in Note 2,  Prior Period Adjustments  in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K. 

We have also identified internal control deficiencies, and have
initiated the implementation of enhancements to our internal
control over financial reporting. We have begun to implement
these enhancements and intend to continue enhancing our internal
controls during the course of the year ending December 31,
2006 and beyond, which are designed to remediate the
deficiencies described in Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting set forth in
 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.  Management
has reviewed the internal control deficiencies with the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors, and has advised the Audit
Committee that certain of the control deficiencies constituted
material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005.

4

Table of Contents   

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Form  10-K 
contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. These forward-looking statements are subject to known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and were
derived utilizing numerous important assumptions that may cause
our actual results, performance or achievements to differ
materially from any future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements.

Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include
the words  believes,   expects, 
 anticipates,   intends, 
 projects,   estimates,   plans, 
 may increase,   may fluctuate  and similar
expressions or future or conditional verbs such as
 will,   should,   would, 
 may  and  could  are generally
forward-looking in nature and are not historical facts.
Forward-looking statements in this
Form  10-K  include,
but are not limited to, the following: (i) the beliefs
regarding the increasing competition in the mortgage industry
and the contraction of margins and volumes in the industry and
our intention to take advantage of this environment by
leveraging our existing mortgage origination services platform
to enter into new outsourcing relationships; (ii) the
beliefs regarding our technology infrastructure; (iii) the
statements regarding our ability to replace the services
provided to us by Cendant under the transition services
agreement; (iv) the expectations regarding our access to
review and test controls around our outsourced information
technology services; (v) the expectation that any existing
legal claims or proceedings other than the several class actions
filed against us as discussed in this
Form  10-K  will not
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial position or cash flows and our intent to vigorously
defend against the several class actions filed against us as
discussed in this
Form  10-K; 
(vi) the beliefs that the restrictions under our loan
agreements will not materially limit our operations or our
ability to make dividend payments on our Common stock;
(vii) the expectation that our agreements and arrangements
with Cendant and Realogy will continue to be material to our
business; (viii) the expectations to continue to seek to
reduce our operating costs in our Mortgage Production and
Mortgage Servicing segments; (ix) the expectation that our
sources of liquidity are adequate to fund operations through the
end of 2007; (x) our anticipated levels of capital
expenditures for 2006; (xi) the expectation that our
interest cost in 2006 will increase significantly from the 2005
level; (xii) the expectations regarding the impact of the
adoption of recently issued accounting pronouncements on our
financial statements; (xiii) the anticipated amounts of
amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the
next five fiscal years; (xiv) the anticipated amounts of
amortization expense for mortgage servicing rights for the next
five fiscal years; (xv) the expectation that our mortgage
loan originations from our Mortgage Production segment in the
year ended December 31, 2006 will be comprised of a similar
portion of mortgage loan originations arising out of our
arrangements with Realogy as during the year ended
December 31, 2005; (xvi) the expectation that any cash
payments that would be made for federal or state taxes in
connection with an adverse ruling by the IRS on the tax-free
structure of the June 1999 disposition of the fleet
business will not be significant; (xvii) the statements
concerning an increase in the capacity under our committed
mortgage repurchase facility; and (xviii) the belief that
we will be granted additional waivers extending the deadlines
for delivery of financial statements as required by certain of
our financing, servicing, hedging and related agreements.

The factors and assumptions discussed below and the risks and
uncertainties described in  Item 1A.
Risk Factors  could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed in such forward-looking
statements:

the material weaknesses that we identified in our internal
    control over financial reporting and the ineffectiveness of our
    disclosure controls and procedures; 

the outcome of civil litigation pending against us, our
    directors, Chief Executive Officer, and former Chief Financial
    Officer and whether our indemnification obligations for such
    directors and executive officers will be covered by our
    directors and officers insurance; 

our ability to meet the extended deadlines for the delivery of
    our quarterly financial statements under our waivers under
    financing agreements and, if not, our ability to obtain
    additional waivers under our 

5

Table of Contents   

financing agreements and to satisfy our obligations under
    certain of our contractual and regulatory requirements for the
    delivery of our quarterly financial statements; 

the effects of environmental, economic or political conditions
    on the international, national or regional economy, the outbreak
    or escalation of hostilities or terrorist attacks and the impact
    thereof on our businesses; 

the effects of a decline in the volume or value of
    U.S. home sales, due to adverse economic changes or
    otherwise, on our mortgage services business; 

the effects of changes in current interest rates on our Mortgage
    Production and Mortgage Servicing segments and on our financing
    costs; 

the effects of changes in the interest rate option volatility,
    spreads between mortgage rates and interest rate swaps and the
    shape of the yield curve, particularly on the performance of our
    pipeline and mortgage servicing rights hedges and our mortgage
    servicing rights valuation; 

our ability to develop and implement operational, technological
    and financial systems to manage growing operations and to
    achieve enhanced earnings or effect cost savings; 

the effects of competition in our existing and potential future
    lines of business, including the impact of competition with
    greater financial resources and broader product lines; 

our ability to quickly reduce overhead and infrastructure costs
    in response to a reduction in revenue; 

our ability to implement fully integrated disaster recovery
    technology solutions in the event of a disaster; 

our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to finance
    our growth strategy, to operate within the limitations imposed
    by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; 

our ability to establish and maintain a functional corporate
    structure and to operate as an independent organization; 

our ability to maintain certain outsourced information
    technology services by either engaging a new third-party service
    provider or extending our transition services agreement and
    entering into our own independent relationship with the existing
    third-party service provider; 

our ability to implement changes to our internal control over
    financial reporting in order to remediate identified material
    weaknesses and other control deficiencies; 

our ability to maintain our relationships with our existing
    clients; 

a deterioration in the performance of assets held as collateral
    for secured borrowings, a downgrade in our credit ratings below
    investment grade or any failure to comply with certain financial
    covenants could negatively impact our access to the secondary
    market for mortgage loans and our ability to act as servicer for
    mortgage loans sold into the secondary market; and 

changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting
    standards, mortgage- and real estate-related regulations and
    state, federal and foreign tax laws. 

Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also
involved in the derivation of these forward-looking statements,
and the failure of such other assumptions to be realized as well
as other factors may also cause actual results to differ
materially from those projected. Most of these factors are
difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond our
control.

The factors and assumptions discussed above may have an impact
on the continued accuracy of any forward-looking statements that
we make. Except for our ongoing obligations to disclose material
information under the federal securities laws, we undertake no
obligation to release publicly any revisions to any
forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the
occurrence of unanticipated events unless required by law. For
any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we
claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995.

6

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1.  
     
      Business   

History  

Prior to February 1, 2005, we were a wholly owned
subsidiary of Cendant Corporation (renamed Avis Budget Group,
Inc.) ( Cendant ) that provided homeowners with
mortgages, serviced mortgage loans, facilitated employee
relocations and provided vehicle fleet management and fuel card
services to commercial clients. On February 1, 2005, we
began operating as an independent, publicly traded company
pursuant to our spin-off (the  Spin-Off ). In
connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into several contracts
with Cendant and its real estate services division to provide
for the separation of our business from Cendant and the
continuation of certain business arrangements with
Cendant s real estate services division, including a
separation agreement, a tax sharing agreement, a transition
services agreement, a strategic relationship agreement, a
marketing agreement, trademark license agreements and the
operating agreement for PHH Home Loans, LLC (together with its
subsidiaries,  PHH Home Loans  or the  Mortgage
Venture ). Cendant spun-off its real estate services
division, Realogy, including its relocation subsidiary, Cartus
Corporation (together with its subsidiaries,  Cartus )
(formerly known as Cendant Mobility Services Corporation
( Cendant Mobility )) into an independent, publicly
traded company (the  Realogy Spin-Off ) effective
July 31, 2006. (See    Arrangements with
Cendant  and    Arrangements with
Realogy  for more information.)

Prior to our Spin-Off, we underwent an internal reorganization
whereby we distributed our former relocation business, Cartus,
fuel card business, Wright Express LLC (together with its
subsidiaries,  Wright Express ), and other
subsidiaries that engaged in the relocation and fuel card
businesses to Cendant, and Cendant contributed its former
appraisal business, STARS, to us. Pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 141,
 Business Combinations 
( SFAS No. 141 ), Cendant s
contribution of STARS to PHH was accounted for as a transfer of
net assets between entities under common control and, therefore,
the financial position and results of operations for STARS are
included in all periods presented. Pursuant to
SFAS No. 144, our financial position and results of
operations of our former relocation and fuel card businesses
have been segregated and reported as discontinued operations for
all periods presented (see Note 25,  Discontinued
Operations  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K  for more
information).

Overview  

We are a leading outsource provider of mortgage and fleet
management services. We conduct our business through three
operating segments: Mortgage Production, Mortgage Servicing and
Fleet Management Services.

Our Mortgage Production segment originates, purchases and sells
mortgage loans through PHH Mortgage Corporation and its
subsidiaries (collectively,  PHH Mortgage ), which is
inclusive of PHH Home Loans. PHH Home Loans is a mortgage
venture, which began operations in October 2005 that we maintain
with Realogy. PHH Mortgage and PHH Home Loans both conduct
business throughout the United States. Our Mortgage Production
segment focuses on providing private label mortgage services to
financial institutions and real estate brokers.

Our Mortgage Servicing segment services mortgage loans that
either PHH Mortgage or PHH Home Loans originated or for which
PHH Mortgage purchased the mortgage servicing rights. Our
Mortgage Servicing segment also acts as subservicer for certain
clients that own the underlying contractual rights. Mortgage
loan servicing consists of collecting loan payments, remitting
principal and interest payments to investors, managing escrow
funds for payment of mortgage-related expenses and administering
our mortgage loan servicing portfolio.

Our Fleet Management Services segment provides commercial fleet
management services to corporate clients and government agencies
throughout the United States and Canada through our wholly owned
subsidiary, PHH Vehicle Management Services Group LLC,
doing business as PHH Arval ( PHH Arval ). PHH Arval
is a fully integrated provider of fleet management services with
a broad range of product offerings. These services include
management and leasing of vehicles and other fee-based services
for our clients  vehicle fleets.

7

Table of Contents   

Available
Information  

Our principal offices are located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt.
Laurel, NJ 08054. Our telephone number is (856) 917-1744.
Our corporate website is located at www.phh.com, and our filings
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), are available
free of charge on our website under the tabs  Investor
Relations   SEC Reports  as soon as reasonably
practicable after such filings are electronically filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, our Code of Business Ethics and the charters of the
committees of our Board of Directors are also available on our
corporate website and printed copies are available upon request.
The information contained on our corporate website is not part
of this Form  10-K. 

Interested readers may also read and copy any materials that we
file at the Securities and Exchange Commission s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C., 20549.
Readers may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission
(the  SEC ) at
 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC
also maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains our
reports.

OUR BUSINESS 

Our Segments  

We changed the composition of our reportable business segments,
effective December 31, 2005, by separating the business
that was formerly called the Mortgage Services segment into two
operating segments, a Mortgage Production segment and a Mortgage
Servicing segment, which resulted in three business segments for
our business operations, a Mortgage Production segment, a
Mortgage Servicing segment and a Fleet Management Services
segment. As a result of the change in segments, the financial
information for our Mortgage Services segment in our
Consolidated Financial Statements for periods prior to
December 31, 2005 has been restated to reflect the
separation into a Mortgage Production segment and a Mortgage
Servicing segment.

Mortgage Production
Segment  

Our Mortgage Production segment focuses on providing mortgage
services, including private label mortgage services, to
financial institutions and real estate brokers through PHH
Mortgage and PHH Home Loans, which conduct business throughout
the United States. Our Mortgage Production segment generated
approximately 21%, 29% and 56% of our Net revenues for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The
following table sets forth the Net revenues, segment profit or
loss (as described in Note 24,  Segment
Information  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K)  and
Assets for our Mortgage Production segment for each of the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

The Mortgage Production segment principally generates revenue
through fee-based mortgage loan origination services and sales
of originated and purchased mortgage loans into the secondary
market. PHH Mortgage generally sells all mortgage loans that it
originates to investors (which include a variety of
institutional investors) within 60 days of origination. For
the year ended December 31, 2005, PHH Mortgage was the
8 th  largest
retail originator of residential mortgages and the
17 th  largest
overall residential mortgage originator, according to  Inside
Mortgage Finance.  We are a leading outsource provider of
mortgage loan origination services to financial institutions and
the only mortgage company authorized to use Century 21,
Coldwell Banker, and ERA brand names in marketing our mortgage
loan products through the Mortgage Venture and other
arrangements that we

8

Table of Contents   

have with Realogy. See    Arrangements with
Realogy   Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and
PHH  and    Strategic Relationship
Agreement  and    Marketing
Agreements.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, we
originated mortgage loans for approximately 18% of the
transactions in which real estate brokerages owned by Realogy
represented the home buyer and approximately 4% of the
transactions in which real estate brokerages franchised by
Realogy represented the home buyer.

We originate mortgage loans through three principal business
channels: financial institutions (on a private label or
co-branded basis), real estate brokers (including brokers
associated with brokerages owned or franchised by Realogy and
third-party brokers) and relocation (mortgage services for
clients of Cartus).

Financial Institutions Channel:  We are a leading provider
    of  private label  mortgage loan originations for
    financial institutions and other entities throughout the United
    States. In this channel, we offer a complete outsourcing
    solution, from processing applications through funding for
    clients that wish to offer mortgage services to their customers,
    but are not equipped to handle all aspects of the process
    cost-effectively. Representative clients include Merrill Lynch
    Credit Corporation ( Merrill Lynch ),
    TD Banknorth, N.A. and Charles Schwab Bank. This channel
    generated approximately 50%, 54% and 67% of our mortgage loan
    originations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
    and 2003, respectively. Approximately 24% of our mortgage loan
    originations for the year ended December 31, 2005 were from
    a single client, Merrill Lynch. (See
       Arrangements with Merrill Lynch  for more
    information.) 

Real Estate Brokers Channel:  We work with real estate
    brokers to provide their customers with mortgage loans. Through
    our affiliations with real estate brokers, we have access to
    home buyers at the time of purchase. In this channel, we work
    with brokers associated with NRT Incorporated, Realogy s
    owned real estate brokerage business (together with its
    subsidiaries,  NRT ), brokers associated with
    Realogy s franchised brokerages ( Realogy
    franchisees ) and brokers that are not affiliated with
    Realogy ( third-party brokers ). Realogy has agreed
    that the residential and commercial real estate brokerage
    business owned and operated by NRT and the title and settlement
    services business owned and operated by Title Research
    Group LLC (formerly known as Cendant Settlement Services Group)
    (together with its subsidiaries,  TRG ) will
    exclusively recommend the Mortgage Venture as provider of
    mortgage loans to (i) the independent sales associates
    affiliated with Realogy Services Group LLC (formerly known as
    Cendant Real Estate Services Group, LLC) and Realogy Services
    Venture Partner Inc. (formerly known as Cendant Real Estate
    Services Venture Partner, Inc.) (the  Realogy Member 
    and together with Realogy Services Group LLC and their
    respective subsidiaries, the  Realogy Entities ),
    excluding the independent sales associates of any Realogy
    franchisee acting in such capacity, (ii) all customers of
    the Realogy Entities (excluding Realogy franchisees or any
    employee or independent sales associate thereof acting in such
    capacity), and (iii) all
     U.S.-based  employees of
    Cendant. (See    Arrangements with
    Realogy   Strategic Relationship Agreement  for
    more information.) In general, our capture rate of mortgages
    where we are the exclusive recommended provider is much higher
    than in other situations. For Realogy franchisees, Coldwell
    Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate LLC, ERA
    Franchise Systems, Inc. and Sotheby s International
    Affiliates, Inc. have each agreed to recommend exclusively PHH
    Mortgage as provider of mortgage loans to their respective
    independent sales associates. (See
       Arrangements with Realogy  
    Marketing Agreements  for more information.) Additionally,
    for Realogy franchisees and third-party brokers, we endeavor to
    enter into separate marketing service agreements
    ( MSAs ) or other arrangements whereby we are the
    exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans to each
    franchise or broker. We have entered into exclusive MSAs with
    40% of Realogy franchisees as of December 31, 2005.
    Following the Realogy Spin-Off, Realogy is a leading franchisor
    of real estate brokerage services in the United States. In this
    channel, we primarily operate on a private label basis,
    incorporating the brand name associated with the real estate
    broker, such as Coldwell Banker Mortgage, Century 21 Mortgage or
    ERA Mortgage. This channel generated approximately 45%, 41% and
    30% of our mortgage loan originations from our Mortgage
    Production segment for the years ended December 31, 2005,
    2004 and 2003, respectively, substantially all of which was
    originated from Realogy and the Realogy franchisees in 2005.
    (See    Arrangements with Realogy  for more
    information.) 

9

Table of Contents   

Relocation Channel:  In this channel, we work with Cartus,
    Realogy s relocation business, to provide mortgage loans to
    employees of Cartus  clients. Cartus is the industry leader
    of outsourced corporate relocation services in the United
    States. This relocation channel generated approximately 5%, 5%
    and 3% of our mortgage loan originations for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. All of our
    mortgage loan originations from this channel were from Cartus.
    (See    Arrangements with Realogy  for more
    information.) 

Included in the Real Estate Brokers and Relocation Channels
described above is the Mortgage Venture that we have with
Realogy. The Mortgage Venture commenced operations in the
beginning of October 2005. At that time, we contributed assets
and transferred employees that have historically supported
originations from NRT and Cartus to the Mortgage Venture. The
provisions of the strategic relationship agreement govern the
manner in which the Mortgage Venture is recommended by Realogy.
See    Arrangements with Realogy  
Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and PHH  and
   Strategic Relationship Agreement.  The
Mortgage Venture originates and sells mortgage loans primarily
sourced through NRT and Cartus. All mortgage loans originated by
the Mortgage Venture are sold to PHH Mortgage or other
third-party investors. The Mortgage Venture does not hold any
mortgage loans for investment purposes or retain mortgage
servicing rights ( MSRs ) for any loans it originates.

We own 50.1% of the Mortgage Venture through our wholly owned
subsidiary, PHH Broker Partner Corporation ( PHH
Member ), and Realogy owns the remaining 49.9% through its
wholly owned subsidiary, Realogy Member. The Mortgage Venture is
consolidated within our financial statements, and Realogy
Member s ownership interest in the Mortgage Venture is
reflected in our financial statements as a minority interest.
The Mortgage Venture did not materially impact our financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. Subject to
certain regulatory and financial covenant requirements, net
income generated by the Mortgage Venture is distributed
quarterly to its members pro rata based upon their respective
ownership interests. The Mortgage Venture may also require
additional capital contributions from us and Realogy under the
terms of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement if required to
meet minimum regulatory capital and reserve requirements imposed
by any governmental authority or any creditor of the Mortgage
Venture or its subsidiaries. The termination of our Mortgage
Venture with Realogy or of our exclusivity arrangement for the
Mortgage Venture under the strategic relationship agreement
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
and our results of operations. (See
   Arrangements with Realogy   Mortgage
Venture Between Realogy and PHH  and
   Strategic Relationship Agreement  for
more information.)

Our mortgage loan origination channels are supported by three
distinct platforms:

Teleservices:  We operate a teleservices operation (also
    known as our Phone In, Move
    In   
    program) that provides centralized processing along with
    consistent customer service. We utilize Phone In, Move In for
    all three origination channels described above. We also maintain
    multiple internet sites that provide online mortgage application
    capabilities for our customers. 

Field Sales Professionals:  Members of our field sales
    force are generally located in real estate brokerage offices or
    are affiliated with financial institution clients around the
    United States, and are equipped to provide product information,
    quote interest rates and help customers prepare mortgage
    applications. Through our
    MyChoice  tm  
    program, mortgage advisors are assigned a dedicated territory
    for marketing efforts and customers are provided with the option
    of applying for mortgage loans over the telephone, in person or
    online through the internet. 

Closed Mortgage Loan Purchases:  We purchase closed
    mortgage loans from community banks, credit unions and mortgage
    brokers and mortgage bankers. We also acquire mortgage loans
    from mortgage brokers that receive applications from and qualify
    the borrowers. 

10

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the composition of our mortgage
loan originations by channel and platform for each of the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

Fee-based closings are comprised of mortgages originated for
others (including brokered loans and loans originated through
our financial institutions channel). Loans originated by us and
purchased from financial institutions are included in loans
closed to be sold while loans retained by financial institutions
are included in fee-based closings.

The following table sets forth the composition of our mortgage
loan originations by product type for each of the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

(1)  
     
    Represents mortgages that conform to the standards of the
    Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ),
    the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie
    Mac ) or the Government National Mortgage Association
    ( Ginnie Mae ). 

Appraisal Services Business   

Our Mortgage Production segment includes our appraisal services
business. In January 2005, Cendant contributed STARS, its
appraisal services business, to us. STARS provides appraisal
services utilizing a network of approximately 4,200 third-party
professional licensed appraisers offering local coverage
throughout the United States, and also provides credit
research, flood certification and tax services. The appraisal
services business is closely linked to the processes by which
our mortgage operations originate mortgage loans and derives
substantially all of its business from our various channels. The
results of operations and financial position of STARS are
included in our Mortgage Production segment for all periods
presented.

11

Table of Contents   

Mortgage Servicing
Segment  

Our Mortgage Servicing segment consists of collecting loan
payments, remitting principal and interest payments to
investors, holding escrow funds for payment of mortgage-related
expenses such as taxes and insurance and otherwise administering
our mortgage loan servicing portfolio. We principally generate
revenue for our Mortgage Servicing segment through fees earned
for servicing mortgage loans held by investors. (See
Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies   Revenue Recognition   Mortgage
Servicing  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K  for a
discussion of our Loan servicing income.) We also generate
revenue from reinsurance income from our wholly owned
subsidiary, Atrium Insurance Corporation ( Atrium ).
Our Mortgage Servicing segment generated approximately 10% and
5% of our Net revenues for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The high amortization rate in 2003,
coupled with the provision for mortgage servicing right
impairment caused our Mortgage Servicing segment to generate
negative Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003.
The following table sets forth the Net revenues, segment profit
or loss (as described in Note 24,  Segment
Information  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K)  and
Assets for our Mortgage Servicing segment for each of the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

PHH Mortgage typically retains the mortgage servicing rights
( MSR  or  MSRs ) on the mortgage loans that
it sells. An MSR is the right to receive a portion of the
interest coupon and fees collected from the mortgagor for
performing specified mortgage servicing activities, as described
above.

12

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth summary data of our mortgage loan
servicing activities as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

(1)  
     
    Excludes certain home equity loans subserviced for others. These
    amounts were approximately $2.5 billion, $2.7 billion
    and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. 

(2)  
     
    Represents the loan servicing portfolio delinquencies as a
    percentage of the total unpaid balance of the portfolio. 

Mortgage Guaranty Reinsurance Business   

Our Mortgage Servicing segment also includes our reinsurance
business, which we conduct through Atrium, our wholly owned
subsidiary and a New York domiciled monoline mortgage guaranty
insurance corporation. Atrium does not write direct insurance
policies, but acts as a reinsurer of a portion of the ultimate
net losses on mortgage insurance policies underwritten by third
parties. Atrium receives premiums from certain third-party
insurance companies and provides reinsurance solely in respect
of primary mortgage insurance issued by those third-party
insurance companies on loans originated through our various loan
origination channels.

Competition   

The principal factors for competition for our Mortgage
Production and Mortgage Servicing segments are service, quality,
products, and price. Competitive conditions also can be impacted
by shifts in consumer preference between variable-rate mortgages
and fixed-rate mortgages, depending on the interest rate
environment. In our Mortgage Production segment, we work with
our clients to develop new and competitive loan products that
address their specific customer needs. In our Mortgage Servicing
segment, we focus on customer service while working to enhance
the efficiency of our servicing platform. Excellent customer
service is also a critical component of our competitive strategy
to win new clients and maintain existing clients. Within every
process in our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing
segments, employees are trained to provide high levels of

13

Table of Contents   

customer service. We, along with our clients, consistently track
and monitor customer service levels and look for ways to improve
customer service.

According to  Inside Mortgage Finance , PHH Mortgage was
the
8 th  largest
retail mortgage loan originator in the United States with a 3.3%
market share as of December 31, 2005 and the
10 th  largest
mortgage loan servicer with a 1.7% market share as of
December 31, 2005. Some of our largest competitors include
Countrywide Financial, Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Washington
Mutual, Chase Home Finance, CitiMortgage, Bank of America, and
GMAC Mortgage Corporation. Many of our competitors are larger
than we are and have access to greater financial resources than
we do, which can place us at a competitive disadvantage.

We believe the mortgage industry will become increasingly
competitive in 2007 as industry and margins and volumes contract
due to higher interest rates. We intend to take advantage of
this environment by leveraging our existing mortgage origination
services platform to enter into new outsourcing relationships as
more companies determine that it is no longer economically
feasible to compete in the industry. See  Our
Business   Mortgage Production Segment  for more
information.

We are party to a strategic relationship agreement dated as of
January 31, 2005, between PHH Mortgage, PHH Home Loans, PHH
Broker Partner Corporation, Realogy, Realogy Venture Partner and
Cendant, which, among other things, restricts us and our
affiliates, subject to limited exceptions, from engaging in
certain residential real estate services, including any business
conducted by the Cendant real estate services division (now
known as Realogy). The strategic relationship agreement also
provides that we will not directly or indirectly sell any
mortgage loans or mortgage loan servicing to certain competitors
in the residential real estate brokerage franchise businesses in
the United States (or any company affiliated with them). See
   Arrangements with Realogy  
Strategic Relationship Agreement  below for more
information.

Seasonality   

Our Mortgage Production segment is generally subject to seasonal
trends. These seasonal trends reflect the pattern in the
national housing market. Home sales typically rise during the
spring and summer seasons and decline during the fall and winter
seasons. Seasonality has less of an effect on mortgage
refinancing activity, which is primarily driven by prevailing
mortgage rates. Our Mortgage Servicing segment is generally not
subject to seasonal trends; however, delinquency rates typically
rise temporarily in the winter months, driven by the mortgagor
payment patterns.

Trademarks and Intellectual Property   

The trade names and related logos of our financial institutions
clients are material to our Mortgage Production and Mortgage
Servicing segments. Our financial institution clients license
the use of their names to us in connection with our private
label business. These trademark licenses generally run for the
duration of our origination services agreements with such
financial institution clients and facilitate the origination
services that we provide to them. Realogy s brand names and
related items, such as logos and domain names, of its owned and
franchised residential real estate brokerages are material to
our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments. Realogy
licenses its real estate brands and related items, such as logos
and domain names, to us for use in our mortgage loan origination
services that we provide to Realogy s owned real estate
brokerage, relocation and settlement services businesses. In
connection with the Spin-Off, TM Acquisition Corp., Coldwell
Banker Real Estate Corporation, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. and
PHH Mortgage entered into a trademark license agreement pursuant
to which PHH Mortgage was granted a license to use certain of
Realogy s real estate brand names and related items, such
as domain names, in connection with our mortgage loan
origination services on behalf of Realogy s franchised real
estate brokerage business. PHH Mortgage was granted a license to
use brand names and related items, such as domain names, in
connection with Realogy s real estate brokerage business
owned and operated by NRT, the relocation business owned and
operated by Cartus and the settlement services business owned
and operated by TRG; however this license terminated upon PHH
Home Loans commencing operations. PHH Home Loans is party to its
own trademark license agreement with TM Acquisition Corp.,
Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation and ERA Franchise
Systems, Inc. pursuant to which PHH Home Loans was granted a
license to use certain of Realogy s real estate brand names
and related items, such as domain

14

Table of Contents   

names, in connection with our mortgage loan origination services
on behalf of Realogy s owned real estate brokerage business
owned and operated by NRT, the relocation business owned and
operated by Cartus and the settlement services business owned
and operated by TRG. See    Arrangements with
Realogy   Trademark License Agreements  for more
information about the trademark license agreements.

Mortgage Regulation   

Our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments are
subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and
regulations and may be subject to various judicial and
administrative decisions imposing various requirements and
restrictions on our business. These laws, regulations and
judicial and administrative decisions to which our Mortgage
Production and Mortgage Servicing segments are subject include
those pertaining to real estate settlement procedures; fair
lending; fair credit reporting; truth in lending; compliance
with net worth and financial statement delivery requirements;
compliance with federal and state disclosure requirements; the
establishment of maximum interest rates, finance charges and
other charges; secured transactions; collection, foreclosure,
repossession and claims-handling procedures and other trade
practices; and privacy regulations providing for the use and
safeguarding of non-public personal financial information of
borrowers. By agreement with our financial institution clients,
we are required to comply with additional requirements that our
clients may be subject to through their regulators. The Home
Mortgage Disclosure Act requires us to disclose certain
information about the mortgage loans we originate and purchase,
such as the race and gender of our customers, the disposition of
mortgage applications, income levels and interest rate (i.e.
annual percentage rate) information. We believe that publication
of such information may lead to heightened scrutiny of all
mortgage lenders  loan pricing and underwriting practices.
The federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act
( RESPA ) and state real estate brokerage laws
restrict the payment of fees or other consideration for the
referral of real estate settlement services. The establishment
of PHH Home Loans and the continuing relationships between and
among PHH Home Loans, Realogy and us are subject to the
anti-kickback requirements of RESPA. There can be no assurance
that more restrictive laws, rules and regulations will not be
adopted in the future or that existing laws, rules and
regulations will be applied in a manner that may adversely
impact our business or make regulatory compliance more difficult
or expensive.

Insurance Regulation   

Our wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Atrium Insurance
Corporation, is subject to insurance regulations in the State of
New York relating to, among other things, standards of solvency
that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and
their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments;
premium rates; restrictions on the size of risks that may be
insured under a single policy; reserves and provisions for
unearned premiums, losses and other obligations; deposits of
securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy
forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of
credit information in underwriting; as well as other
underwriting and claims practices. The New York State Insurance
Department also conducts periodic examinations and requires the
filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial
condition of companies and other matters.

As a result of our ownership of Atrium, we are subject to New
York s insurance holding company statute, as well as
certain other laws, which, among other things, limit
Atrium s ability to declare and pay dividends except from
undivided profits remaining on hand above the aggregate of our
paid-in capital, paid-in surplus and contingency reserve.
Additionally, anyone seeking to acquire, directly or indirectly,
10% or more of Atrium s outstanding common stock, or
otherwise proposing to engage in a transaction involving a
change in control of Atrium, will be required to obtain the
prior approval of the New York Superintendent of Insurance.

Fleet Management
Services Segment  

We provide fleet management services to corporate clients and
government agencies through PHH Arval throughout the United
States and Canada. We are a fully integrated provider of these
services with a broad range of product offerings. We are the
second largest provider of outsourced commercial fleet
management services in the United States and Canada, combined,
according to a nationally recognized industry publication. We
focus on clients with fleets of greater than 500 vehicles (the
 large fleet market ) and clients with fleets of
between 75 and

15

Table of Contents   

500 vehicles (the  national fleet market ). Following
our acquisition of First Fleet Corporation ( First
Fleet ) on February 27, 2004, we enhanced our truck
fleet offering and are increasing our efforts to attract
customers in this market. As of December 31, 2005, we had
more than 329,000 vehicles leased, primarily consisting of cars
and light trucks and, to a lesser extent medium and heavy
trucks, trailers and equipment and approximately
294,000 additional vehicles serviced under fuel cards,
maintenance cards, accident management services arrangements
and/or similar arrangements. We purchase more than 80,000
vehicles annually. Our Fleet Management Services segment
generated 69%, 66% and 52% of our Net revenues for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The
following table sets forth the Net revenues, segment profit (as
described in Note 24,  Segment Information  in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K)  and
Assets for our Fleet Management Services segment for each of the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

We offer fully integrated services that provide solutions to
clients subject to their business objectives. We place an
emphasis on customer service and focus on a consultative
approach with our clients. Our employees support each client in
achieving the full benefits of outsourcing fleet management,
including lower costs and better operations. We offer
 24-hour  customer
service for the end-users of our products and services. We
believe we have developed an industry-leading technology
infrastructure. Our data warehousing, information management and
online systems provide clients access to customized reports to
better monitor and manage their corporate fleets.

We provide corporate clients and government agencies the
following services and products:

Fleet Leasing and Fleet Management Services.  These
    services include vehicle leasing, fleet policy analysis and
    recommendations, benchmarking, vehicle recommendations, ordering
    and purchasing vehicles, arranging for vehicle delivery and
    administration of the title and registration process, as well as
    tax and insurance requirements, pursuing warranty claims and
    remarketing used vehicles. We also offer various leasing plans,
    financed primarily through the issuance of floating-rate notes
    and borrowings through an asset-backed structure. For the year
    ended December 31, 2005, we averaged 325,000 leased
    vehicles. Substantially all of the residual risk on the value of
    the vehicle at the end of the lease term remains with the lessee
    for approximately 97% of the vehicles financed by us in the
    United States and Canada. These leases typically have a minimum
    lease term of 12 months and can be continued after that at
    the lessee s election for successive monthly renewals. At
    the appropriate replacement period, we typically sell the
    vehicle into the secondary market and the client receives a
    credit or pays the difference between the sale proceeds and the
    book value. For the remaining 3% of the vehicles financed by us,
    we retain the residual risk of the value of the vehicle at the
    end of the lease term. We maintain rigorous standards with
    respect to the creditworthiness of our clients. Net credit
    losses as a percentage of the ending dollar amount of leases
    have not exceeded 0.07% in any of the last three fiscal years.
    During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 our
    fleet leasing and fleet management servicing generated
    approximately 95% of our revenues for our Fleet Management
    Services segment in each year. 

Maintenance Services.  We offer clients vehicle
    maintenance service cards that are used to facilitate payment
    for repairs and maintenance. We maintain an extensive network of
    third-party service providers in the United States and Canada to
    ensure ease of use by the clients  drivers. The vehicle
    maintenance service cards provide customers with the following
    benefits: (i) negotiated discounts off of full retail
    prices through our convenient supplier network, (ii) access
    to our in-house team of certified maintenance experts that
    monitor transactions for policy compliance, reasonability and
    cost-effectiveness and (iii) inclusion of vehicle
    maintenance transactions in a consolidated information and
    billing database 

16

Table of Contents   

which assists clients with the evaluation of overall fleet
    performance and costs. For the year ended December 31,
    2005, we averaged 338,000 maintenance service cards outstanding
    in the United States and Canada. We receive a fixed monthly fee
    for these services from our clients as well as additional fees
    from service providers in our third-party network for individual
    maintenance services. 

Accident Management Services.  We provide our clients with
    comprehensive accident management services such as immediate
    assistance upon receiving the initial accident report from the
    driver (e.g., facilitating emergency towing services and car
    rental assistance), an organized vehicle appraisal and repair
    process through a network of third-party preferred repair and
    body shops and coordination and negotiation of potential
    accident claims. Our accident management services provide our
    clients with the following benefits: (i) convenient,
    coordinated  24-hour 
    assistance from our call center, (ii) access to our
    relationships with the repair and body shops included in our
    preferred supplier network, which typically provides clients
    with favorable terms, and (iii) expertise of our damage
    specialists, who ensure that vehicle appraisals and repairs are
    appropriate, cost-efficient and in accordance with each
    client s specific repair policy. For the year ended
    December 31, 2005, we averaged 332,000 vehicles that were
    participating in accident management programs with us in the
    United States and Canada. We receive fees from our clients for
    these services as well as additional fees from service providers
    in our third-party network for individual incident services. 

Fuel Card Services.  We provide our clients with fuel card
    programs that facilitate the payment, monitoring and control of
    fuel purchases through PHH Arval. Fuel is typically the single
    largest fleet-related operating expense. By using our fuel
    cards, our clients receive the following benefits: access to
    more fuel brands and outlets than other private label corporate
    fuel cards,
     point-of -sale
    processing technology for fuel card transactions that enhances
    clients  ability to monitor purchases and consolidated
    billing and access to other information on fuel card
    transactions, which assists clients with evaluation of overall
    fleet performance and costs. Our fuel card offered through a
    relationship with Wright Express in the U.S. and through a
    proprietary card in Canada offers expanded fuel management
    capabilities on one service card. For the year ending
    December 31, 2005, we averaged 321,000 fuel cards
    outstanding in the United States and Canada. We receive both
    monthly fees from our fuel card clients and additional fees from
    fuel providers. 

The following table sets forth the Net revenues attributable to
our domestic and foreign operations for our Fleet Management
Services segment for each of the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003:

The following table set forth our Fleet Management Services
segment s Assets located domestically and in foreign
countries as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

17

Table of Contents   

Leases   

We lease vehicles to our clients under both open-end and
closed-end leases. The majority of our leases are to corporate
clients and are open-end leases, a form of lease in which the
customer bears substantially all of the vehicle s residual
value risk.

Our open-end operating lease agreements generally provide for a
minimum lease term of 12 months. At any time after the end
of the minimum term, the client has the right to terminate the
lease for a particular vehicle. We typically then sell the
vehicle into the secondary market. If the net proceeds from the
sale are greater than the vehicle s book value, the client
receives the difference. If the net proceeds from the sale are
less than the vehicle s book value, the client pays us
substantially all of the difference. Closed-end leases, on the
other hand, are entered into for a designated term of 24,
36 or 48 months. At the end of the lease, the client
returns the vehicle to us. Except for excess wear and tear or
excess mileage, for which the client is required to reimburse
us, we then bear the risk of loss upon resale.

Open-end leases may be classified as operating leases or direct
financing leases depending upon the nature of the residual
guarantee. For operating leases, lease revenues, which contain a
depreciation component, an interest component and a management
fee component, are recognized over the lease term of the
vehicle, which encompasses the minimum lease term and the
 month-to -month
renewals. For direct financing leases, lease revenues contain an
interest component and a management fee component. The interest
component is recognized using the effective interest method over
the lease term of the vehicle, which encompasses the minimum
lease term and the
 month-to -month
renewals. Amounts charged to lessees for interest are determined
in accordance with the pricing supplement to the respective
lease agreement and are generally calculated on a floating-rate
basis that varies
 month-to -month in
accordance with changes in the floating-rate index. Amounts
charged to lessees for interest may also be based on a fixed
rate that would remain constant for the life of the lease.
Amounts charged to lessees for depreciation are based on the
straight-line depreciation of the vehicle over its expected
lease term. Management fees are recognized on a straight-line
basis over the expected lease term. Revenue for other services
is recognized when such services are provided to the lessee.

We sell certain of our truck and equipment leases to third-party
banks and individual financial institutions. When we sell
leases, we sell the underlying assets and assign any rights to
the leases, including future leasing revenues, to the banks or
financial institutions.

Trademarks and Intellectual Property   

The service mark  PHH  and related trademarks and
logos are material to our Fleet Management Services segment. All
of the material marks used by us are registered (or have
applications pending for registration) with the United States
Patent and Trademark Office. All of the material marks used by
us are also registered in Canada, and the  PHH  mark
and logo are registered (or have applications pending) in those
major countries where we have strategic partnerships with local
providers of fleet management services. Except for the Arval
mark, which we license from a third party so that we can do
business as PHH Arval, we own the material marks used by us in
our Fleet Management Services segment.

Competition   

We differentiate ourselves from our competitors primarily on
three factors: the breadth of our product offering, customer
service and technology. Unlike certain of our competitors that
focus on selected elements of the fleet management process, we
offer fully integrated services. In this manner, we are able to
offer customized solutions to clients regardless of their needs.
We believe we have developed an industry-leading technology
infrastructure. Our data warehousing, information management and
online systems enable clients to download customized reports to
better monitor and manage their corporate fleets. Our
competitors in the United States and Canada include GE
Commercial Finance Fleet Services, Wheels Inc., Automotive
Resources International, Lease Plan International and other
local and regional competitors, including numerous competitors
who focus on one or two products. Certain of our competitors are
larger than we are and have access to greater financial
resources than we do.

18

Table of Contents   

Seasonality   

The revenues generated by our Fleet Management Services segment
are generally not seasonal.

Commercial Fleet Leasing Regulation   

We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations
including those relating to taxing and licensing of vehicles,
certain consumer credit and environmental protection. Our Fleet
Management Services segment could be liable for damages in
connection with motor vehicle accidents under the theory of
vicarious liability. Under this theory, companies that lease
motor vehicles may be subject to liability for the tortious acts
of their lessees, even in situations where the leasing company
has not been negligent. Our lease contracts require that each
lessee indemnify us against such liabilities; however, in the
event that a lessee lacks adequate insurance coverage or
financial resources to satisfy these indemnity provisions, we
could be liable for property damage or injuries caused by the
vehicles that we lease. A new federal law was enacted that
preempts state vicarious liability laws that impose unlimited
liability on vehicle lessors. This law, however, does not
preempt existing state laws that impose limited liability on a
vehicle lessor in the event that certain insurance or financial
responsibility requirements for the leased vehicles are not met.
The scope and application of this law have not been tested. (See
 Item 1A. Risk Factors   Risks Related to
our Business   The businesses in which we engage are
complex and heavily regulated, and changes in the regulatory
environment affecting our businesses could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.  for more information.)

Employees  

As of December 31, 2005, we employed a total of
approximately 7,060 persons, including approximately 5,660
persons in our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing
segments, approximately 1,370 persons in our Fleet Management
Services segment and approximately 30 corporate employees. As of
September 30, 2006, we employed a total of approximately
6,700 persons, including approximately 5,260 persons in our
Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments,
approximately 1,400 in our Fleet Management Services segment and
approximately 40 corporate employees. Management considers our
employee relations to be satisfactory. As of September 30,
2006, none of our employees were covered under collective
bargaining agreements.

ARRANGEMENTS WITH CENDANT 

Prior to February 1, 2005, we were a wholly owned
subsidiary of Cendant and provided homeowners with mortgages,
serviced mortgage loans, facilitated employee relocations and
provided vehicle fleet management and fuel card services to
commercial clients. On February 1, 2005, we began operating
as an independent, publicly traded company pursuant to the
Spin-Off. We entered into several contracts with Cendant in
connection with the Spin-Off to provide for our separation from
Cendant and the transition of our business as an independent
company, including a separation agreement, a tax sharing
agreement and a transition services agreement.

Separation
Agreement  

In connection with the Spin-Off, we and Cendant entered into a
separation agreement that provided for our internal
reorganization whereby we distributed our former relocation
business and fuel card business to Cendant and Cendant
contributed its former appraisal business, STARS, to us. The
separation agreement also provided for the allocation of the
costs of the Spin-Off, the establishment of our pension, 401(k)
and retiree medical plans, our assumption of certain Cendant
stock options and restricted stock awards (as adjusted and
converted into awards relating to our common stock), our
assumption of certain pension obligations and certain other
provisions customary for agreements of its type.

Following the Spin-Off, the separation agreement requires us to
exchange information with Cendant, resolve disputes in a
particular manner, maintain the confidentiality of certain
information and preserve available legal privileges. The
separation agreement also provides for a mutual release of
claims by Cendant and us, indemnification rights between Cendant
and us and the non-solicitation of employees by Cendant and us.

19

Table of Contents   

Allocation of Costs and Expenses Related to the
    Transaction   

Pursuant to the separation agreement, all
 out-of -pocket fees and
expenses incurred by us or Cendant directly related to the
Spin-Off (other than taxes, which are allocated pursuant to the
amended and restated tax sharing agreement) are to be paid by
Cendant; provided, however, Cendant is not obligated to pay any
such expenses incurred by us unless such expenses have had the
prior written approval of an officer of Cendant. Additionally,
we are responsible for our own internal fees, costs and
expenses, such as salaries of personnel, incurred in connection
with the Spin-Off.

Release of Claims   

Under the separation agreement, we and Cendant release one
another from all liabilities that occurred, failed to occur or
were alleged to have occurred or failed to occur or any
conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the
date of the Spin-Off. The release of claims, however, does not
affect Cendant s or our rights or obligations under the
separation agreement, the amended and restated tax sharing
agreement or the transition services agreement.

Indemnification   

Pursuant to the separation agreement, we agree to indemnify
Cendant for any losses (other than losses relating to taxes,
indemnification for which is provided in the amended and
restated tax sharing agreement) that any party seeks to impose
upon Cendant or its affiliates that relate to, arise or result
from:

any of our liabilities, including, among other things: 

(i) 
     
    all liabilities reflected in our pro forma balance sheet as of
    September 30, 2004 or that would be, or should have been,
    reflected in such balance sheet, 

(ii) 
     
    all liabilities relating to our business whether before or after
    the date of the Spin-Off, 

(iii) 
     
    all liabilities that relate to, or arise from any performance
    guaranty of Avis Group Holdings, Inc. in connection with
    indebtedness issued by Chesapeake Funding LLC (which changed its
    name to Chesapeake Finance Holdings LLC effective March 7,
    2006), 

(iv) 
     
    any liabilities relating to our or our affiliates 
    employees, and 

(v) 
     
    all liabilities that are expressly allocated to us or our
    affiliates, or which are not specifically assumed by Cendant or
    any of its affiliates, pursuant to the separation agreement, the
    amended and restated tax sharing agreement or the transition
    services agreement; 

any breach by us or our affiliates of the separation agreement,
    the amended and restated tax sharing agreement or the transition
    services agreement (described below under
       Transition Services Agreement  and 

any liabilities relating to information in the registration
    statement on
    Form  8-A  filed
    with the SEC on January 18, 2005 (the
     Form  8-A ), 
    the information statement (the  Information
    Statement ) filed by us as an exhibit to our Current Report
    on Form  8-K  filed
    on January 19, 2005 (the  January 19, 2005
    Form  8-K )  or
    the investor presentation (the  Investor
    Presentation ) filed as an exhibit to the January 19,
    2005 Form  8-K, 
    other than portions thereof provided by Cendant. 

Cendant is obligated to indemnify us for any losses (other than
losses relating to taxes, indemnification for which is provided
in the amended and restated tax sharing agreement described
below under    Tax Sharing Agreement ) that
any party seeks to impose upon us or our affiliates that relate
to:

any liabilities other than liabilities we have assumed or any
    liabilities relating to the Cendant business; 

any breach by Cendant or its affiliates of the separation
    agreement, the amended and restated tax sharing agreement or the
    transition services agreement; and 

any liabilities relating to information in the
    Form  8-A,  the
    Information Statement or the Investor Presentation provided by
    Cendant. 

20

Table of Contents   

In addition, we and our pension plan have agreed to indemnify
Cendant and its pension plan, and Cendant and its pension plan
have agreed to indemnify us and our pension plan, with respect
to any liabilities involving eligible participants in our and
Cendant s pension plans, respectively.

Tax Sharing
Agreement  

In connection with the Spin-Off, we and Cendant entered into a
tax sharing agreement that contains provisions governing the
allocation of liability for taxes between Cendant and us,
indemnification for liability for taxes and responsibility for
preparing and filing tax returns and defending tax contests, as
well as other tax-related matters including the sharing of tax
information and cooperating with the preparation and filing of
tax returns. On December 21, 2005, we and Cendant entered
into an amended and restated tax sharing agreement which
clarifies that Cendant shall be responsible for tax liabilities
and potential tax benefits for certain tax returns and time
periods.

Allocation of Liability for Taxes   

Pursuant to the amended and restated tax sharing agreement,
Cendant is responsible for all federal, state and local income
taxes of or attributable to any affiliated or similar group
filing a consolidated, combined or unitary income tax return of
which any of Cendant or its affiliates (other than us or our
subsidiaries) is the common parent for any taxable period
beginning on or before January 31, 2005, except, in certain
cases, for taxes resulting from the failure of the Spin-Off or
transactions relating to the internal reorganization to qualify
as tax-free as described more fully below. Cendant is
responsible for all other income taxes and all non-income taxes
attributable to Cendant and its subsidiaries (other than us or
our subsidiaries), and, except, as noted below, for certain
separate income taxes attributable to years prior to 2004, which
are Cendant s responsibility, we are responsible for all
other income taxes and all non-income taxes attributable to us
and our subsidiaries. As a result of the resolution of any tax
contingencies that relate to audit adjustments due to taxing
authorities  review of prior income tax returns and any
effects of current year income tax returns, our tax basis in
certain of our assets may be adjusted in the future. We are
responsible for any corporate level taxes resulting from the
failure of the Spin-Off or transactions relating to the internal
reorganization to qualify as tax-free, which failure was the
result of our or our subsidiaries  actions,
misrepresentations or omissions. We also are responsible for
13.7% of any corporate level taxes resulting from the failure of
the Spin-Off or transactions relating to the internal
reorganization to qualify as tax-free, which failure is not due
to the actions, misrepresentations or omissions of Cendant or us
or our respective subsidiaries. Such percentage was based on the
relative pro forma net book values of Cendant and us as of
September 30, 2004, without giving effect to any
adjustments to the book values of certain long-lived assets that
may be required as a result of the Spin-Off and the related
transactions. We have agreed to indemnify Cendant and its
subsidiaries and Cendant has agreed to indemnify us and our
subsidiaries for any taxes for which the other is responsible.

The amended and restated tax sharing agreement, dated as of
December 21, 2005, clarifies that Cendant is responsible
for separate state taxes on a significant number of our income
tax returns for years 2003 and prior. We will cooperate with
Cendant on any federal and state audits for these years, but
will not be responsible for any liabilities that may result from
such audits.

Preparing and Filing Tax Returns   

Cendant has the right and obligation to prepare and file all
consolidated, combined or unitary income tax returns with
respect to any affiliated or similar group of which any of
Cendant or its affiliates (other than us or our subsidiaries) is
the common parent beginning on or before January 31, 2005.
We are required to provide information and to cooperate with
Cendant in the preparation and filing of these tax returns. We
have the right and obligation to prepare and file all other
income tax returns and all non-income tax returns relating to us
and our subsidiaries.

21

Table of Contents   

Tax Contests   

Cendant has the right to control all administrative, regulatory
and judicial proceedings relating to federal, state and local
income taxes of or attributable to any affiliated or similar
group filing a consolidated, combined or unitary income tax
return of which any of Cendant or its affiliates (other than us
or our subsidiaries) is the common parent and all proceedings
relating to taxes resulting from the failure of the Spin-Off or
transactions relating to the internal reorganization to qualify
as tax-free. We have the right to control all administrative,
regulatory and judicial proceedings relating to other income
taxes and non-income taxes attributable to us and our
subsidiaries.

Tax Benefits   

If we become entitled to certain tax attributes or benefits
(related to the Avis merger agreement) subsequent to the
Spin-Off that relate to an audit adjustment for a consolidated,
combined, unitary or similar income tax return for a certain tax
year prior to the Spin-Off for which Cendant is responsible
under the amended and restated tax sharing agreement, we are
required to make payments to Cendant in respect of these tax
attributes or benefits if and to the extent that we actually
realize a tax benefit for a post Spin-Off taxable year (i.e.,
such tax attributes or benefits actually reduce the income taxes
that we otherwise would have been required to pay had no such
audit adjustment occurred). If we or our subsidiaries become
entitled to receive payments from the State of New Jersey that
are attributable to the New Jersey Business Employment Incentive
Program for taxable years (or portions thereof) ending on or
before the Spin-Off, we are required to pay such amounts (net of
certain expenses we have incurred in connection with
establishing entitlement to those amounts) to Cendant within
five days of receipt thereof.

Transition Services
Agreement  

In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into a transition
services agreement with Cendant and Cendant Operations, Inc.
that governs certain continuing arrangements between us and
Cendant to provide for our orderly transition from a wholly
owned subsidiary to an independent, publicly traded company.

Pursuant to the transition services agreement, Cendant, through
its subsidiary Cendant Operations, Inc., provided us, and we
provided to Cendant, various services including services
relating to human resources and employee benefits, payroll,
financial systems management, treasury and cash management,
accounts payable services, external reporting,
telecommunications services and information technology services.
Prior to the  Spin-Off, 
Cendant provided these and other services to us and allocated
certain corporate costs to us which, in the aggregate, were
approximately $32 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. During 2005, we paid Cendant
$3 million for services related to corporate functions
under the transition services agreement. During 2005, we
increased our internal capabilities to reduce our reliance on
Cendant for these services. Additionally, we may continue to
purchase certain information technology services through Cendant
under their current contracts on terms consistent with our
historic cost from Cendant. The transition services agreement
also contains agreements relating to indemnification, access to
information and certain other provisions customary for
agreements of this type. We have the right to receive reasonable
information with respect to charges for transition services
provided by Cendant.

The cost of each transition service under the transition
services agreement generally reflects the same payment terms and
is calculated using the same cost-allocation methodologies for
the particular service as those associated with historic costs
for the equivalent services, and at a rate intended to
approximate an arm s-length pricing negotiation as if there
were no pre-existing cost-allocation methodology; however, the
agreement was negotiated in the context of a parent-subsidiary
relationship and in the context of the Spin-Off. (See
 Item 1A. Risk Factors   Risks Related to
the Spin-Off   Our agreements with Cendant and Realogy
may not reflect terms that would have resulted from
arm s-length negotiations between unaffiliated
parties.  for more information.) The transition services
agreement will expire January 31, 2007, unless otherwise
extended by us and Cendant. After the expiration of the
arrangements contained in the transition services agreement, we
may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or
on terms and conditions, including cost, as favorable as those
we received from Cendant.

22

Table of Contents   

With respect to the outsourced information technology services
currently provided to us under the transition services
agreement, we are pursuing alternative arrangements, including
(i) extending the transition services agreement with
Cendant to provide for the continuation of the outsourced
information technology services and entering into our own
independent relationship with the existing third-party service
provider for these services; or (ii) engaging a new third
party to provide these services. While we believe we will be
able to implement either of these alternative arrangements in a
timely manner, there can be no assurances that this result will
occur. If we are unable to enter into either of these
alternative arrangements in a timely manner, it will likely have
a material and adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Prior to the Spin-Off, we provided Cendant and certain Cendant
affiliates, subsidiaries and business units with certain
information technology support, equipment and services at or
from our data center, and certain PC desktop support for
approximately 100 Cendant personnel, located at our facility in
Sparks, Maryland. During 2005, we provided these services to
Cendant and applicable affiliates, subsidiaries and business
units under the transition services agreement. Cendant
terminated the provision of these services as of January 1,
2006.

ARRANGEMENTS WITH REALOGY 

In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into several
contracts with Cendant s real estate services division to
provide for the continuation of certain business arrangements,
including the operating agreement for PHH Home Loans, a
strategic relationship agreement, a marketing agreement, and two
trademark license agreements. Cendant s real estate
services division, Realogy, became an independent, publicly
traded company pursuant to the Realogy Spin-Off effective
July 31, 2006. Following the Realogy Spin-Off, Realogy is a
leading franchisor of real estate brokerages, and the largest
owner and operator of residential real estate brokerages in the
U.S. and the largest U.S. provider of relocation services.
As a result of the Realogy Spin-Off, we have determined that
certain amendments to these agreements may be necessary or
appropriate. As of the filing date of this
Form  10-K,  we have
not obtained these amendments. There can be no assurances that
we will be able to obtain any amendments we believe may be
necessary or appropriate or that if obtained that these
amendments will be on terms favorable to us.

Mortgage Venture
Between Realogy and PHH  

Realogy, through its subsidiary Realogy Member, and we, through
our subsidiary, PHH Member, are parties to the Mortgage Venture
for the purpose of originating and selling mortgage loans
sourced through Realogy s owned residential real estate
brokerage, corporate relocation and settlement services
businesses, NRT, Cartus and TRG, respectively. In connection
with the formation of the Mortgage Venture, we contributed
assets and transferred employees to the Mortgage Venture that
historically supported originations from NRT and Cartus. The
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement has a
 50-year  term, subject
to earlier termination as described below under
   Termination  or non-renewal by PHH Member
after 25 years subject to delivery of notice between
January 31, 2027 and January 31, 2028. In the event
that PHH Member does not deliver a non-renewal notice after the
25 th  year,
the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement will be renewed for an
additional  25-year  term
subject to earlier termination as described below under
   Termination. 

The Mortgage Venture commenced operations in October 2005 and is
licensed, where applicable, to conduct loan origination, loan
sales and related operations in those jurisdictions in which it
is doing business. All mortgage loans originated by the Mortgage
Venture are sold to PHH Mortgage or to unaffiliated third-party
investors on arm s-length terms. The Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement provides that the members of the Mortgage
Venture intend that at least 15% of the total number of all
mortgage loans originated by the Mortgage Venture be sold to
unaffiliated third-party investors. The Mortgage Venture does
not hold any mortgage loans for investment purposes or retain
MSRs for any loans it originates. As discussed under
   Marketing Agreements,  PHH Mortgage
entered into interim marketing agreements with NRT and Cartus
pursuant to which Cendant, NRT and Cartus agreed that PHH
Mortgage was the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage
products and services promoted by NRT to its independent
contractor sales associates and by Cartus to its customers and
clients. The interim marketing services agreements terminated
following commencement of the Mortgage

23

Table of Contents   

Venture. Thereafter, the provisions of the strategic
relationship agreement, as discussed in more detail below, began
to govern the manner in which the Mortgage Venture is
recommended.

Ownership and Distributions   

We own 50.1% of the Mortgage Venture through PHH Member, and
Realogy owns the remaining 49.9% of the Mortgage Venture,
through Realogy Member. The Mortgage Venture is consolidated
within our Consolidated Financial Statements, and for the year
ended December 31, 2005, Realogy s ownership interest
in the Mortgage Venture is reflected in our Consolidated
Financial Statements as a minority interest. The Mortgage
Venture did not materially impact our results of operations for
the year ended December 31, 2005. Subject to certain
regulatory and financial covenant requirements, net income
generated by the Mortgage Venture is distributed quarterly to
its members pro rata based upon their respective ownership
interests. The Mortgage Venture may require additional capital
contributions from us and Realogy under the terms of the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement if it is required to meet
minimum regulatory capital and reserve requirements imposed by
any governmental authority or any creditor of the Mortgage
Venture or its subsidiaries.

Management   

We manage the Mortgage Venture through PHH Member with the
exception of certain specified actions that are subject to
approval by Realogy through the board of advisors. The Mortgage
Venture has a board of advisors consisting of representatives of
Realogy and PHH. The board of advisors has no managerial
authority, and its primary purpose is to provide a means for
Realogy to exercise its approval rights over those specified
actions of the Mortgage Venture for which Realogy s
approval is required.

Termination   

Pursuant to the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, Realogy
Member has the right to terminate the Mortgage Venture and the
strategic relationship agreement in the event of:

a Regulatory Event (defined below) continuing for six months or
    more; provided that PHH Member may defer termination on account
    of a Regulatory Event for up to six additional one-month periods
    by paying Realogy Member a $1.0 million fee at the
    beginning of each such one-month period; 

a change in control of us, PHH Member or any other affiliate of
    ours involving certain competitors or other specified parties; 

a material breach, not cured within the requisite cure period,
    by us, PHH Member or any other affiliate of ours of the
    representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements
    (discussed below) under any of the Mortgage Venture Operating
    Agreement, the strategic relationship agreement (described below
    under    Strategic Relationship Agreement ),
    the marketing agreement (described below under
       Marketing Agreements ), the trademark
    license agreements (described below under
       Trademark License Agreement ), the
    management services agreement (described below under
       Management Services Agreement ) and
    certain other agreements entered into in connection with the
    Spin-Off; 

the failure by the Mortgage Venture to make scheduled
    distributions pursuant to the Mortgage Venture Operating
    Agreement; 

the bankruptcy or insolvency of us or PHH Mortgage, or 

any act or omission by us or our subsidiaries that causes or
    would reasonably be expected to cause material harm to Cendant
    or any of its subsidiaries. 

As defined in the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, a
 Regulatory Event  is a situation in which
(i) PHH Mortgage or the Mortgage Venture becomes subject to
any regulatory order, or any governmental entity initiates a
proceeding with respect to PHH Mortgage or the Mortgage Venture,
and (ii) such regulatory order or proceeding prevents or
materially impairs the Mortgage Venture s ability to
originate loans for any period of time in a manner that
adversely affects the value of one or more quarterly
distributions to be paid by the Mortgage Venture pursuant to the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement; provided, however, that a
Regulatory Event

24

Table of Contents   

does not include (a) any order, directive or interpretation
or change in law, rule or regulation, in any such case that is
applicable generally to companies engaged in the mortgage
lending business such that PHH Mortgage or such affiliate or the
Mortgage Venture is unable to cure the resulting circumstances
described in (ii) above, or (b) any regulatory order
or proceeding that results solely from acts or omissions on the
part of Cendant or its affiliates.

The representations, warranties, covenants and other agreements
in the strategic relationship agreement, marketing agreement,
trademark license agreements and management services agreement
include, among others: (i) customary representations and
warranties made by us or our affiliated party to such
agreements, (ii) our confidentiality agreements in the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement and the strategic
relationship agreement with respect to Realogy information,
(iii) our obligations under the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement, (iv) our indemnification obligations under the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, the strategic relationship
agreement, and the trademark license agreements, (v) our
non-competition agreements in the strategic relationship
agreement and (vi) our termination assistance agreements in
the strategic relationship agreement in the event that the
Mortgage Venture is terminated.

Upon a termination of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement
by Realogy Member, Realogy Member will have the right either
(i) to require that PHH Mortgage or PHH Member purchase all
of its interest in the Mortgage Venture or (ii) to cause
PHH Member to sell its interest in the Mortgage Venture to an
unaffiliated third party designated by Realogy Member.

The exercise price at which PHH Mortgage or PHH Member would be
required to purchase Realogy Member s interest in the
Mortgage Venture would be the sum of the following: (i) the
capital account balance for Realogy Member s interest in
the Mortgage Venture as of the closing date of the purchase;
(ii) the aggregate amount of all past due quarterly
distributions to Realogy Member and any unpaid distribution in
respect of the most recently completed fiscal quarter as of the
closing date of the purchase; and (iii) any amount equal to
49.9% of the net income, if any, realized by the Mortgage
Venture at any time after the end of the fiscal quarter most
recently completed as of the closing date of the purchase
attributable to mortgage loans in process at any time prior to
the closing date of the purchase. The exercise price would also
include a liquidated damages payment equal to the sum of
(i) two times the Mortgage Venture s trailing twelve
months net income (except that, in the case of a termination by
Realogy Member following a change in control of us, PHH Member
or an affiliate of ours, PHH Member may be required to make a
cash payment to Realogy Member in an amount equal to its
allocable share of the Mortgage Venture s trailing twelve
months net income multiplied by (a) if the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement is terminated prior to its twelfth
anniversary, the number of years remaining in the first twelve
years of the term of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement,
or (b) if the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement is
terminated on or after its tenth anniversary, two years, and
(ii) all costs reasonably incurred by Cendant in unwinding
its relationship with us pursuant to the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement and the related agreements, including the
strategic relationship agreement, marketing agreement and
trademark license agreements.

The sale price at which PHH Member would be required to sell its
interest in the Mortgage Venture would be the sum of
(i) the fair value of the interests as of the closing date
of the sale, (ii) the aggregate amount of all past due
quarterly distributions to PHH Member and any unpaid
distribution in respect to the most recently completed fiscal
quarter as of the closing date of the sale, and (iii) any
amount equal to 50.1% of the net income, if any, realized by the
Mortgage Venture at any time after the end of the fiscal quarter
most recently completed as of the closing date of the sale
attributable to mortgage loans in process at any time prior to
the closing date of the sale. The fair value of the interests
would be equal to PHH Member s proportionate share of the
Mortgage Venture s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) for the
twelve months prior to the closing date of the sale, multiplied
by a then-current average market EBITDA multiple for mortgage
banking companies.

Two-Year Termination   

Beginning on February 1, 2015, the tenth anniversary of the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, Realogy Member may
terminate the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement at any time
by giving two years 

25

Table of Contents   

prior written notice to us (a  two-year termination ).
Upon a two-year termination of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement by Realogy Member, Realogy Member will have the option
either (i) to require that PHH Member purchase all of
Realogy Member s interest in the Mortgage Venture or
(ii) to cause PHH Member to sell its interest in the
Mortgage Venture to an unaffiliated third party designated by
Realogy Member.

The exercise price at which PHH Member would be required to
purchase Realogy Member s interest in the Mortgage Venture
would be the sum of the following: (i) the fair value of
Realogy Member s interest in the Mortgage Venture as of the
closing date of the purchase; (ii) the aggregate amount of
all past due quarterly distributions to Realogy Member and any
unpaid distribution in respect of the most recently completed
fiscal quarter as of the closing date of the purchase; and
(iii) any amount equal to 49.9% of the net income realized
by the Mortgage Venture at any time after the end of the fiscal
quarter most recently completed as of the closing date of the
purchase attributable to mortgage loans in process at any time
prior to the closing date of the purchase. The fair value of
Realogy Member s interest would be determined through
business valuation experts selected by each of the members.
These business valuation experts would then prepare two
valuations of the interest in the Mortgage Venture in light of
the relevant facts and circumstances, including the consequences
of the two-year termination and PHH Member s purchase of
Realogy Member s interest. In the event that the difference
between the two valuations is equal to or less than 10%, then
the average of the two valuations would be used as the fair
value of Realogy Member s interest in the Mortgage Venture.
In the event that the difference between the two valuations is
greater than 10%, then the two business valuation experts would
select another business valuation expert to perform a third
valuation which would be used as the fair value of Realogy
Member s interest in the Mortgage Venture.

The sale price at which PHH Member would be required to sell its
interest in the Mortgage Venture would be the sum of
(i) the fair value of PHH Member s interests as of the
closing date of the sale, (ii) the aggregate amount of all
past due quarterly distributions to PHH Member and to any
affiliate and any unpaid distribution in respect of the most
recently completed fiscal quarter as of the closing date of the
sale, and (iii) any amount equal to 50.1% of the net
income, if any, realized by the Mortgage Venture at any time
after the end of the fiscal quarter most recently completed as
of the closing date of the sale attributable to mortgage loans
in process at any time prior to the closing date of the sale.
The fair value of PHH Member s interests would be
determined in a similar manner as the fair value of Realogy
Member s interest is determined above.

Special Termination   

In the event that, as a result of any change in the law,
(i) any provision of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement or the related agreements (including the strategic
relationship agreement, marketing agreement and trademark
license agreements) is not compliant with applicable law, or
(ii) the financial terms of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement or any of the related agreements, taken as a whole,
become inconsistent with the then-current market, the members
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to restructure our
business and to amend the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement
in a manner that complies with such law and, to the extent
possible, most closely reflects the original intention of the
members as to the economics of their relationship. In the case
of a law that renders the financial terms of the Mortgage
Venture Operating Agreement to become inconsistent with the
then-current market, Realogy Member may also request that PHH
Member and PHH Mortgage enter into good faith negotiations to
renegotiate the terms of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement within 30 days following the request. During such
 30-day  period, Realogy
Member may solicit proposals from PHH Member and other persons
for the provision of mortgage services substantially similar to
those provided under the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement
and the related agreements. If Realogy Member receives a
proposal from a third party that Realogy Member determines,
taken as a whole, is superior to PHH Member s proposal,
then Realogy Member may elect to terminate the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement. Upon a termination of the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement by Realogy Member, PHH Member would be
required to purchase Realogy Member s interest in the
Mortgage Venture at a price calculated in the same manner as the
price at which Realogy Member could cause PHH Member to purchase
its interest in the Mortgage Venture upon a two-year
termination. The closing of the purchase would be completed
within 90 days of the termination of the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement by Realogy Member.

26

Table of Contents   

PHH Termination   

PHH Member has the right to terminate the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement either upon a material breach, not cured
within the requisite cure period by Realogy Member of a material
provision of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement or the
related agreements, including the strategic relationship
agreement, marketing agreement and trademark license agreements,
or the bankruptcy or insolvency of Cendant. Upon a termination
of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement by PHH Member, PHH
Member has the right to purchase Realogy Member s interest
in the Mortgage Venture at a price equal to the sum of the
following: (i) the fair value of Realogy Member s
interest in the Mortgage Venture as of the date PHH Member
exercises its purchase right; (ii) the aggregate amount of
all past due quarterly distributions to Realogy Member and any
unpaid distribution in respect of the most recently completed
fiscal quarter as of the date PHH Member exercises its purchase
right; and (iii) any amount equal to 49.9% of net income
realized by the Mortgage Venture at any time after the end of
the fiscal quarter most recently completed as of the date PHH
Member exercises its purchase right attributable to mortgage
loans in process at any time prior to the date PHH Member
exercises its purchase right. The fair value of Realogy
Member s interest would be equal to Realogy Member s
proportionate share of the Mortgage Venture s trailing
twelve month EBITDA multiplied by a then-current average EBITDA
multiple for mortgage banking companies. PHH Member s right
would be exercisable for two months following a termination
event by delivering written notice to Cendant. The closing of
the purchase would not be completed prior to the one year
anniversary of PHH Member s exercise notice to Realogy
Member.

PHH Non-Renewal   

As discussed above, PHH Member may elect not to renew the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement for an additional
 25-year  term by
delivering a notice to Realogy Member between January 31,
2027 and January 31, 2028. Upon a non-renewal of the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement by PHH Member, PHH Member
has the right either (i) to purchase Realogy Member s
interest in the Mortgage Venture at a price calculated in the
same manner as the price at which Realogy Member could cause PHH
Member to purchase its interest in the Mortgage Venture upon a
two-year termination; or (ii) to sell PHH Member s
interest in the Mortgage Venture to an unaffiliated third party
designated by Realogy Member at a price calculated in the same
manner as the price at which Realogy Member could cause PHH
Member to sell its interest in the Mortgage Venture upon a
two-year termination. The closing of this transaction would not
be completed prior to January 31, 2030.

Effects of Termination or Non-Renewal   

Upon termination of the Mortgage Venture by Realogy Member or
PHH Member as described above, the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement and related agreements will terminate automatically
(excluding certain privacy, non-competition, venture-related
transition provisions and other general provisions, which shall
survive termination of such agreements), and Realogy Member and
its affiliates will be released from any restrictions under the
agreements entered into in connection with the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement (including the strategic relationship
agreement, marketing agreement, trademark license agreements and
management services agreement) that may restrict its ability to
pursue a partnership, joint venture or another arrangement with
any third-party mortgage operation.

Management Services
Agreement  

PHH Mortgage operates under a management services agreement with
the Mortgage Venture pursuant to which PHH Mortgage provides
certain mortgage origination processing and administrative
services for the Mortgage Venture. The mortgage origination
processing services that PHH Mortgage provides the Mortgage
Venture includes seasonal call center staffing beyond the
Mortgage Venture s permanent staff, secondary mortgage
marketing, pricing and, for certain channels, underwriting,
credit scoring and document review. Administrative services that
PHH Mortgage provides the Mortgage Venture include payroll,
financial systems management, treasury, information technology
services, telecommunications services and human resources and
employee benefits services. In exchange for such services, the
Mortgage Venture pays PHH Mortgage a fee per service based upon
various bases, including a flat fee and cost per loan. The
management services agreement terminates automatically upon the
termination of the strategic relationship agreement.

27

Table of Contents   

Strategic Relationship
Agreement  

We and Realogy are parties to a strategic relationship
agreement. The strategic relationship agreement contains
detailed covenants regarding the relationship of Realogy and us
with respect to the operation of the Mortgage Venture and its
origination channels, which are discussed below:

Exclusive Recommended Provider of Mortgage Loans   

Under the strategic relationship agreement, Realogy agreed that
the residential and commercial real estate brokerage business
owned and operated by NRT, the title and settlement services
business owned and operated by TRG, and the relocation business
owned and operated by Cartus will exclusively recommend the
Mortgage Venture as provider of mortgage loans to (i) the
independent sales associates affiliated with the Realogy
Entities (excluding the independent sales associates of any
Realogy franchisee acting in such capacity), (ii) all
customers of the Realogy Entities (excluding Realogy franchisees
or any employee or independent sales associate thereof acting in
such capacity), and (iii) all
 U.S.-based  employees of
Cendant. Realogy, however, is not required under the terms of
the strategic relationship agreement to condition doing business
with a customer on such customer obtaining a mortgage loan from
the Mortgage Venture or contacting or being contacted by the
Mortgage Venture. Realogy has the right to terminate the
exclusivity arrangement of the strategic relationship agreement
under certain circumstances, including (i) if we materially
breach any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement
contained in any of the agreements entered into in connection
with the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement (described
generally above under    Mortgage Venture Between
Realogy and PHH   Termination ) and such breach
is not cured within the required cure period, and (ii) if a
Regulatory Event occurs and is not cured within the required
time period. In addition, if the Mortgage Venture is prohibited
by law, rule, regulation, order or other legal restriction from
performing its mortgage origination function in any
jurisdiction, and such prohibition has not been cured within the
applicable cure period, Realogy has the right to terminate
exclusivity in the affected jurisdiction.

Subsequent Mortgage Company Acquisitions   

If Realogy acquires or enters into an agreement to acquire,
directly or indirectly, a residential real estate brokerage
business that also directly or indirectly owns or conducts a
mortgage loan origination business, then we will work together
with Realogy and the Mortgage Venture to formulate a plan for
the sale of such mortgage loan origination business to the
Mortgage Venture pursuant to pricing perimeters specified in the
strategic relationship agreement. If the parties do not reach an
agreement with respect to the terms of the sale within
30 days after we or the Mortgage Venture receive notice of
the proposed acquisition, Realogy has the option either
(i) to sell the mortgage loan origination business to a
third party (provided that the Mortgage Venture has a right of
first refusal if the purchase price for the proposed sale to the
third party is less than a specified amount with respect to the
purchase price calculated under the formulas specified in the
strategic relationship agreement or, if no formula is
applicable, the price proposed by Realogy), or (ii) to
retain and operate the mortgage loan origination business of
such residential real estate brokerage business, and, in either
case, described under clauses (i) or (ii), at the option of
Realogy, under certain circumstances, the exclusivity provisions
described above will terminate with respect to each county in
which the mortgage loan origination business of such acquired
residential real estate brokerage conducts its operations. If
the parties reach agreement with respect to the terms of the
sale but the Mortgage Venture defaults on its obligation to
complete the sale transaction in a timely manner, the Mortgage
Venture is required to make a damages payment to Realogy within
30 days after the acquisition was scheduled to close. If
the damages payment is not made by such date, at the option of
Realogy, under certain circumstances, the exclusivity provisions
described above will terminate with respect to each county in
which the mortgage loan origination business of the acquired
residential real estate brokerage conducts its operations.

Non-Competition   

The strategic relationship agreement provides that, subject to
limited exceptions, we will not engage in (i) the title,
closing, escrow or search-related services for residential real
estate transactions and all other mortgage-related transactions
or provide any services or products which were otherwise offered
or provided by TRG as of January 31, 2005, (ii) the
residential real estate brokerage business, commercial real
estate brokerage

28

Table of Contents   

business or corporate relocation services business, or become or
operate as a broker, owner or franchisor in any such business,
or otherwise, directly or indirectly, assist or facilitate the
purchase or sale of residential or commercial real estate (other
than through STARS or through the Mortgage Venture s
origination and servicing of mortgage loans), or (iii) any
other business conducted by Realogy as of January 31, 2005.
Our non-competition covenant will survive for up to two years
following termination of the strategic relationship agreement.
To the extent that Realogy expands into new business and, at the
time of such expansion, we are engaged in the same business, we
will not be prohibited from continuing to conduct such business.
The strategic relationship agreement also provides that
(i) neither we nor our subsidiaries will directly or
indirectly sell any mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights
to any of the 20 largest residential real estate brokerage firms
in the U.S. or any of the 10 largest residential real
estate brokerage franchisors in the U.S.; and (ii) neither
we nor our affiliates will knowingly solicit any such
competitors for mortgage loans other than through the Mortgage
Venture, as provided in the strategic relationship agreement and
the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement.

Other Exclusivity Arrangements   

The strategic relationship agreement also provides for
additional exclusivity arrangements with PHH, including the
following:

We will use Realogy Services Group LLC on all of our commercial
    real estate transactions where a Realogy commercial real estate
    agent is available. 

We will recommend TRG as the provider of title, closing, escrow
    and search-related services, and 

We will utilize TRG on an exclusive basis whenever we have the
    option to choose the title or escrow agent and TRG either
    provides such services or receives compensation in connection
    with such services in the applicable jurisdiction. 

Indemnification   

Pursuant to the strategic relationship agreement, we have agreed
to indemnify Realogy for all losses arising out of or resulting
from (i) any violation or material breach by us of any
representation, warranty, or covenant in the agreement or
(ii) our negligent or willful misconduct in connection with
the agreement. We have also agreed to indemnify the Mortgage
Venture for all losses incurred or sustained by it (i) for
any damages paid by the Mortgage Venture in connection with an
acquisition of a mortgage loan origination business under the
strategic relationship agreement, or (ii) any interest paid
by the Mortgage Venture for any failure to make scheduled
distributions for any fiscal quarter pursuant to the Mortgage
Venture Operating Agreement. (See    Subsequent
Mortgage Company Acquisitions  and
   Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and
PHH   Termination  above for more information).

PHH Guarantee   

We guarantee all representations, warranties, covenants,
agreements and other obligations of our subsidiaries and
affiliates (other than the Mortgage Venture) in the full and
timely performance of their respective obligations under the
strategic relationship agreement and the other agreements
entered into in connection with the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement.

Termination   

The strategic relationship agreement terminates upon termination
of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement. (See
   Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and
PHH   Termination  and    Effects
of Termination or Non-Renewal  for more information about
termination of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement.)
Following termination of the strategic relationship agreement,
we are required to provide certain transition services to
Realogy for up to one year following termination.

29

Table of Contents   

Trademark License
Agreement  

PHH Mortgage, TM Acquisition Corp., Coldwell Banker Real Estate
Corporation and ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. are parties to a
trademark license agreement pursuant to which PHH Mortgage was
granted a license to use certain of Realogy s real estate
brand names, trademarks and service marks and related items,
such as logos and domain names in its origination of mortgage
loans on behalf of customers of Realogy s franchised real
estate brokerage business. PHH Mortgage also was granted a
license to use certain of Realogy s real estate brand names
and related items in connection with its mortgage loan
origination services for Realogy s real estate brokerage
business owned and operated by NRT, the relocation business
owned and operated by Cartus and the settlement services
business owned and operated by TRG; however, this license
terminated upon PHH Home Loans commencing operations. We pay a
fixed licensing fee to the licensors on a quarterly basis. PHH
Mortgage agreed to indemnify the licensors and their affiliates
for all damages from third-party claims directly or indirectly
arising out of our use of the licensed marks. The trademark
license agreement terminates upon the completion of either PHH
Member s purchase of Realogy Member s interest in PHH
Home Loans, or PHH Member s sale of its interest in PHH
Home Loans, upon a termination of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement or the dissolution of PHH Home Loans. (See
   Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and
PHH   Termination  and    Effects
of Termination or Non-Renewal  for more information about
termination of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement.) PHH
Mortgage or the licensor may also terminate the trademark
license agreement for the other party s breach or default
of any material obligation under the trademark license agreement
that is not cured within 60 days after receipt of written
notice of the breach. Upon termination of the trademark license
agreement, PHH Mortgage loses all rights to use the licensed
marks and must destroy all materials containing or in any way
using the licensed marks.

PHH Home Loans is party to a trademark license agreement with TM
Acquisition Corp., Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation and
ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. pursuant to which PHH Home Loans was
granted a license to use certain of Realogy s real estate
brand names, trademarks and service marks and related items,
such as domain names, in connection with its mortgage loan
origination services for Realogy s real estate brokerage
business owned and operated by NRT, the relocation business
owned and operated by Cartus and the settlement services
business owned and operated by TRG. The license granted to PHH
Home Loans is royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-assignable,
non-transferable and non-sublicensable. PHH Home Loans agrees to
indemnify the licensors and their affiliates for all damages
from third-party claims directly or indirectly arising out of
PHH Home Loan s use of the licensed marks. The trademark
license agreement terminates upon the completion of either PHH
Member s purchase of Realogy Member s interest in PHH
Home Loans, or PHH Member s sale of its interests in PHH
Home Loans upon a termination of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement or the dissolution of PHH Home Loans. (See
   Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and
PHH   Termination  and    Effects
of Termination or Non-Renewal  for more information about
termination of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement.) PHH
Home Loans or the licensors may also terminate the trademark
license agreement for the other party s breach or default
of any material obligation under the trademark license agreement
that is not cured within 60 days after receipt of written
notice of the breach. Upon termination of the trademark license
agreement, PHH Home Loans loses all rights to use the licensed
marks and must destroy all materials containing or in any way
using the licensed marks.

Marketing
Agreements  

Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate
Corporation, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc., Sotheby s
International Affiliates, Inc. and PHH Mortgage are parties to a
marketing agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the marketing
agreement, Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21
Real Estate LLC, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. and Sotheby s
International Affiliates, Inc. have each agreed to recommend
exclusively PHH Mortgage as provider of mortgage loans to their
respective independent sales associates. In addition, Coldwell
Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate
Corporation, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. and Sotheby s
International Affiliates, Inc. agree under the marketing
agreement to actively promote our products and services to their
franchisees and the sales agents of their franchisees, which
includes, among other things, promotion of PHH through mail
inserts, brochures and advertisements as well as articles in
company newsletters and permitting PHH Mortgage presentations
during sales meetings. Under the

30

Table of Contents   

marketing agreement, we pay Coldwell Banker Real Estate
Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate Corporation, ERA Franchise
Systems, Inc. and Sotheby s International Affiliates, Inc.
a marketing fee for conducting such promotions based upon the
fair market value of the services to be provided. The marketing
agreement terminates upon termination of the strategic
relationship agreement.

Prior to entering into the marketing agreement, NRT and Cartus
each entered into separate interim marketing agreements with PHH
Mortgage. Pursuant to the interim marketing agreement between
NRT and PHH Mortgage, NRT agreed to provide access to PHH
Mortgage and to market PHH Mortgage s various mortgage
programs and services to NRT s customers and real estate
agents in NRT s company-owned offices. Cartus agreed under
its interim marketing agreement with PHH Mortgage to provide
access to PHH Mortgage and to market PHH Mortgage s
various mortgage programs and services to the customers and
clients of Cartus. In addition, NRT and Cartus each agreed under
both interim marketing agreements to provide certain additional
marketing and promotional services for PHH Mortgage. Such
services during 2005 included mail inserts, brochures and
advertisements as well as placement in company newsletters and
permitting PHH Mortgage presentations during sales meetings and,
with respect to NRT, also included the posting of PHH Mortgage
banners and signs throughout NRT offices. Under both interim
marketing agreements, NRT and Cartus each agreed not to enter
into similar arrangements with any other person or entity. PHH
Mortgage paid each of NRT and Cartus monthly marketing fees
under the interim marketing agreements, which were based upon
the fair market value of the services to be provided. The NRT
interim marketing agreement and the Cartus interim marketing
agreement terminated following the commencement of the Mortgage
Venture. The provisions of the strategic relationship agreement
and the marketing agreement described above now govern the
manner in which the Mortgage Venture and PHH Mortgage,
respectively, are recommended.

ARRANGEMENTS WITH MERRILL LYNCH 

Approximately 24% of our mortgage loan originations for the year
ended December 31, 2005 were from Merrill Lynch Credit
Corporation ( Merrill Lynch ), pursuant to certain
agreements between us and Merrill Lynch as described in
more detail below.

Origination Assistance
Agreement  

We are party to an Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, with Merrill Lynch, as amended (the
 OAA ). Pursuant to the OAA, we assist Merrill Lynch
in originating certain mortgage loans on a private-label basis.
We also provide certain origination-related services for Merrill
Lynch on a private label basis in connection with Merrill
Lynch s wholesale loan program for correspondent lenders
and mortgage brokers. The mortgage loan origination services
that we perform for Merrill Lynch include receiving and
processing applications for certain mortgage loan products
offered by Merrill Lynch, preparing documentation for mortgage
loans that meet Merrill Lynch s applicable underwriting
guidelines, closing mortgage loans, maintaining certain files
with respect to mortgage loans and providing daily interest rate
sheets to correspondent lenders and mortgage brokers. We also
assist Merrill Lynch in making bulk purchases of certain
mortgage loan products from correspondent lenders. Under the
terms of the OAA, we are the exclusive provider of mortgage
loans for mortgage loan borrowers (other than borrowers who
borrow indirectly through a correspondent lender or mortgage
broker) who either (i) have a relationship with, or are
referred by, a Merrill Lynch Financial Advisor in the Global
Private Client Group or (ii) are clients of the Merrill
Lynch investor services group. We are required to provide all
services under the OAA in accordance with the service standards
specified therein. The OAA obligates us to make certain
liquidated damage payments to Merrill Lynch if we do not
maintain specified levels of customer satisfaction with respect
to the services that we provide on behalf of Merrill Lynch. In
addition, our breach of the service standards in certain
circumstances (a  PHH performance failure ) may result
in termination of the OAA. The initial term of the OAA expires
on December 31, 2010, unless earlier terminated. Upon
expiration of the initial term, the OAA will automatically renew
for a five-year extension term; provided that, if there shall
have been a PHH performance failure or a Merrill Lynch
performance failure prior to December 31, 2010, then the
OAA shall not automatically extend unless the non-breaching
party gives notice to the other party that it is willing to
extend the OAA. We and Merrill Lynch each have the right to
terminate the OAA for the other party s uncured material
breach of any representation, warranty or covenant of the OAA or
bankruptcy or

31

Table of Contents   

insolvency. In addition, Merrill Lynch may also terminate the
OAA upon notice to us if (i) we lose good standing with the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
( HUD ) or both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac revoke our
good standing for cause and we do not have our good standing
reinstated within 30 days; (ii) we experience a change
of control under certain circumstances; or (iii) we breach
the terms of the trademark use agreement with Merrill Lynch
without curing such a breach within the applicable cure period.
During the one-year period following termination of the OAA, we
are obligated to assist Merrill Lynch in transitioning the
business back to it or a third-party service provider designated
by Merrill Lynch.

Portfolio Servicing
Agreement  

We are also party to a Portfolio Servicing Agreement, dated as
of January 28, 2000, with Merrill Lynch, as amended (the
 Portfolio Servicing Agreement ). Pursuant to the
Portfolio Servicing Agreement, we service certain mortgage loans
originated or otherwise held in a portfolio by Merrill Lynch and
maintain electronic files related to the servicing functions
that we perform. Mortgage loan servicing under the Portfolio
Servicing Agreement includes collecting loan payments from
borrowers, remitting principal and interest payments to the
owner of each mortgage loan, and managing escrow funds for
payment of mortgage loan-related expenses, such as property
taxes and homeowner s insurance. We also assist Merrill
Lynch in managing funds relating to properties acquired by
Merrill Lynch in foreclosure, which may include the disposition
of such properties. We may not terminate the Portfolio Servicing
Agreement without the consent of Merrill Lynch. Merrill Lynch,
however, may terminate the Portfolio Servicing Agreement at any
time upon notice to us in the event of (i) any uncured
material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant by
us under certain agreements, including the Portfolio Servicing
Agreement, the trademark use agreement with Merrill Lynch, and
the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement (as defined below),
(ii) our bankruptcy or insolvency, (iii) the loss of
our eligibility to sell or service mortgage loans for Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae if we cease to be a HUD-approved
mortgagee, (iv) we experience a change in control under
certain circumstances; or (v) our failure to meet certain
service standards specified in the Portfolio Servicing
Agreement, which is not cured within the applicable cure period.
If the Portfolio Servicing Agreement is terminated due to our
failure to meet certain specified service standards, then we and
Merrill Lynch will retain an arbitrator to determine the fair
market value of the mortgage servicing rights. Upon
determination of the fair market value of such mortgage
servicing rights by the arbitrator, Merrill Lynch may elect to
terminate the Portfolio Servicing Agreement and purchase such
mortgage servicing rights from us.

Loan Purchase and Sale
Agreement  

We are party to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, with Merrill Lynch, as amended (the
 Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement ). Pursuant to the
Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, we are required to purchase
from Merrill Lynch certain mortgage loans that have been
originated under the OAA, including the mortgage servicing
rights with respect to such loans (other than alternative
mortgage loans). We and Merrill Lynch agree upon mortgage loans
constituting alternative mortgage loans from time to time, but
generally these loans include three- and five   year
adjustable-rate and variable-rate mortgage loans and
construction loans. While not required, we may elect to purchase
alternative mortgage loans from Merrill Lynch, including the
mortgage servicing rights associated with such loans, upon
mutual agreement of Merrill Lynch. The initial term of the Loan
Purchase and Sale Agreement expires on December 31, 2010,
unless earlier terminated. Upon expiration of the initial term,
the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement will automatically renew
for a five-year extension term; provided that, if there shall
have been a PHH performance failure or a Merrill Lynch
performance failure prior to December 31, 2010, then the
Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement shall not automatically extend
unless the non-breaching party gives notice to the other party
that it is willing to extend the Loan Purchase and Sale
Agreement. Both we and Merrill Lynch have the right to terminate
the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement for the other party s
uncured material breach of any representation, warranty or
covenant of the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement or bankruptcy
or insolvency. In addition, Merrill Lynch may also terminate the
Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement upon notice to us if
(i) we lose our good standing with HUD or both Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac revoke our good standing for cause and we do not
have our good standing reinstated within 30 days;
(ii) we experience a change of control under certain
circumstances; or (iii) we breach the terms of our
trademark use agreement with Merrill Lynch without curing such
breach within the applicable cure period.

32

Table of Contents   

Following termination of the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement,
we are no longer required to purchase any mortgage loans
originated under the OAA.

Servicing Rights
Purchase and Sale Agreement  

We are party to a Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement,
dated as of January 28, 2000, with Merrill Lynch, as
amended (the  SRPSA ). Pursuant to the SRPSA, we are
required to purchase from Merrill Lynch the mortgage servicing
rights for certain mortgage loans that have been originated
under the OAA (alternative mortgage loans). We purchase the
servicing rights at quarterly bulk offering sales and on a flow
basis. We will not purchase servicing rights for loans that are
(i) 60 days or more past due as of the sale date;
(ii) in litigation; or (iii) in bankruptcy. The SRPSA
expires upon the earlier of December 31, 2010 and the date
upon which the OAA is terminated. If the OAA is extended, the
SRPSA shall be automatically extended for the same extension
term. Both we and Merrill Lynch have the right to terminate the
SRPSA for the other party s uncured material breach of any
representation, warranty or covenant of the SRPSA or bankruptcy
or insolvency. In addition, either party may terminate the SRPSA
if the other party loses its good standing with HUD, Fannie Mae,
Freddie Mac, or Ginnie Mae. Following termination of the SRPSA,
we are no longer required to purchase the servicing rights and
no further flow offerings or quarterly bulk offerings shall take
place.

Equity Access and Omega
Loan Subservicing Agreement  

We are party to an Equity Access and Omega Loan Subservicing
Agreement, dated as of June 6, 2002, with Merrill Lynch, as
amended (the  EA Agreement ). Merrill Lynch services
certain revolving line of credit loans secured by marketable
securities, as well as certain securitized and non-securitized,
residential first and second lien equity line of credit loans
pursuant to applicable pooling and servicing agreements and
private investor agreements. Pursuant to this agreement, we
agree to subservice such loans for Merrill Lynch. The EA
Agreement expires upon the earlier of June 1, 2009 and the
date upon which the OAA is terminated. With respect to services
to be provided by us pursuant to the EA Agreement, we agree to
indemnify Merrill Lynch for all losses resulting from our
failure to comply with the terms of any private investor
agreement or pooling and servicing agreement. Merrill Lynch may
terminate the EA Agreement at any time upon notice to us in the
event of (i) any uncured material breach of any
representation, warranty or covenant by us including failure to
make pass-through payments, (ii) our bankruptcy or
insolvency, (iii) the loss of our eligibility to sell or
service mortgage loans for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie
Mae, or if we cease to be a HUD-approved mortgagee, or
(iv) if we fail to perform in accordance with the
applicable service standards and do not cure the failure within
90 days.

Item 1A.  
     
      Risk Factors   

Risks Related to our
Internal Control Deficiencies, the Restatement of our Financial
Statements and the Delay in Filing our Periodic
Reports  

We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our
    internal control over financial reporting.   

During the preparation of our financial statements for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we identified a number
of control deficiencies in our internal control over financial
reporting. A number of these control deficiencies have been
classified as material weaknesses or significant deficiencies
that in the aggregate constitute material weaknesses. A material
weakness is a control deficiency that results in there being
more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of
the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented
or detected on a timely basis by employees in the normal course
of their assigned functions. Based on the material weaknesses
identified, management concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was not effective as of December 31,
2005. Additionally, management was unable to complete its review
and testing of certain outsourced information technology
services provided in support of our financial reporting, general
ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, customer billing
and human resource and payroll system processes. As a result,
there can be no assurance that there were not additional
material weaknesses relating to these outsourced IT services.

As of the end of the period covered in this
Form  10-K, 
management performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures. Our disclosure controls and
procedures are designed to ensure that information required to
be disclosed in our periodic reports is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is
accumulated

33

Table of Contents   

and communicated to our management to allow timely decisions
regarding disclosures. Based on the evaluation and the
identification of the material weaknesses in internal control
over financial reporting described above, as well as our
inability to file this
Form  10-K  within
the statutory time period, management concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of
December 31, 2005.

As of the filing of this
Form  10-K,  we have
implemented changes in our internal control over financial
reporting to remediate certain but not all of the identified
control deficiencies. Our continuing remediation efforts are
subject to our internal control assessment, testing and
evaluation processes. While these efforts continue, we will rely
on additional substantive procedures and other measures as
needed to assist us with meeting the objectives otherwise
fulfilled by an effective control environment. As a result, we
expect that once we commence our preparation and review of
first, second and third quarter 2006 financial statements, our
internal control over financial reporting will not be effective
as of March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006, respectively. There can be no assurance
that our internal control over financial reporting or our
disclosure controls and procedures will prevent future error or
fraud in connection with our financial statements. See
 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  for additional
information.

We expect to continue to incur significant expenses
    related to our internal control over financial reporting and the
    preparation of our financial statements.   

We have devoted substantial internal and external resources to
the completion of our Consolidated Financial Statements for the
year ended December 31, 2005 and related matters. As a
result of these efforts, along with efforts to complete our
assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, as required by Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect that we will incur
incremental fees and expenses for additional auditor services,
financial and other consulting services, legal services and
liquidity waivers of approximately $35 million to
$40 million. While we do not expect fees and expenses
relating to the preparation of our financial results for future
periods to remain at this level, we expect that these fees and
expenses will remain significantly higher than historical fees
and expenses in this category for the next several quarters.
These expenses, as well as the substantial time devoted by our
management towards addressing these weaknesses, could have a
material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows.

We have postponed the filing of our Quarterly Reports on
    Form  10-Q  for the
    quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
    September 30, 2006. As a result, we do not have current
    financial information available and are not able to register our
    securities for offer and sale until we are deemed a current
    filer with the SEC.   

We have postponed the filing of this
Form  10-K,  our
Proxy Statement and our Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006. As a result, there is a lack of current
publicly available financial information concerning us.
Investors must evaluate whether to purchase or sell our
securities in light of the lack of current financial information
concerning us. We are not in a position to predict at what date
current financial information will be available. Accordingly,
any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk.
In addition, until current periodic reports and financial
statements are available for us, we will be precluded from
registering our securities with the SEC for offer and sale. This
precludes us from raising debt or equity financing in the public
markets and restrains our ability to use stock options and other
equity-based awards to attract, retain and provide incentives to
our employees.

As a result of the delays in filing our periodic reports,
    we required certain waivers regarding the delivery of financial
    statements under our financing agreements and certain other
    contractual and regulatory requirements. We may require
    additional waivers in the future, particularly if we are unable
    to meet the deadlines for delivery of our quarterly financial
    statements. Failure to obtain waivers could be material and
    adverse to our business, liquidity and financial
    condition.   

We have previously obtained certain waivers and continue to seek
additional waivers extending the date for delivery of our
Consolidated Financial Statements, the financial statements of
our subsidiaries, and other documents related to such financial
statements to certain lenders, trustees and other third parties
in connection

34

Table of Contents   

with certain of our financing, servicing, hedging and related
agreements and instruments (collectively, our  Financing
Agreements ). We obtained waivers under certain of our
Financing Agreements which waive certain potential breaches of
covenants under those instruments and establish the extended
deadlines for the delivery of our financial statements and other
documents to the various lenders under those instruments. With
respect to our Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006, the waivers extended the deadline for
delivery of these financial statements and other documents until
December 29, 2006. Due to the existence of material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and
the delays in completing the 2005 audited financial statements,
it is now uncertain whether we can issue our 2006 quarterly
financial statements within this extended date. It is also
uncertain as to whether we can issue our 2006 annual and 2007
quarterly financial statements within the deadlines prescribed
by the Financing Agreements or by the SEC.

Under certain of our Financing Agreements, the lenders or
trustees have the right to notify us if they believe we have
breached a covenant under the operative documents and may
declare an event of default. If one or more notices of default
were to be given, we believe we would have various periods in
which to cure such events of default. If we do not cure the
events of default or obtain necessary waivers within the
required time periods or certain extended time periods, the
maturity of some of our debt could be accelerated and our
ability to incur additional indebtedness could be restricted.
Moreover, defaults under certain of our Financing Agreements
would trigger cross-default provisions under certain of our
other financing arrangements. We also obtained certain waivers
and may need to seek additional waivers extending the date for
delivery of the financial statements of our subsidiaries and
other documents related to such financial statements to certain
regulators, investors in mortgage loans and other third parties
in order to satisfy state mortgage licensing regulations and
certain contractual requirements. We will continue to seek
similar waivers as may be necessary in the future. Our
independent registered public accounting firm s audit
report with respect to the Consolidated Financial Statements
contains an explanatory paragraph stating that the uncertainty
about our ability to comply with certain of our financial
agreement covenants relating to the timely filing of our
financial statements raises substantial doubt about our ability
to continue as a going concern.

There can be no assurance that any additional waivers will be
received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers
obtained, including the waivers we have already obtained, will
extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration
event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business
operations. The failure to obtain such waivers could have a
material and adverse effect on our business, liquidity and
financial condition.

The delays in filing our periodic reports with the SEC
    could cause the NYSE to commence suspension or delisting
    procedures with respect to our common stock.   

As a result of the delay in filing our periodic reports, we are
in breach of the continued listing requirements of the NYSE. We
have received a waiver from the NYSE extending the deadline for
filing our periodic reports until January 2, 2007, subject
to review by the NYSE on an ongoing basis. We may be required to
seek additional waivers from the NYSE for our periodic reports
for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006
and September 30, 2006 as well as waivers for our 2006
annual and 2007 quarterly periodic reports. There can be no
assurance that any such waiver will be granted. Further delays
in the filing of our periodic reports could cause the NYSE to
commence suspension or delisting procedures in respect of our
common stock. The commencement of any suspension or delisting
procedures by the NYSE remains, at all times, at the discretion
of the NYSE and would be publicly announced by the NYSE. The
delisting of our common stock from the NYSE may have a material
adverse effect on us by, among other things, limiting:

the liquidity of our common stock; 

the market price of our common stock; 

the number of institutional and other investors that will
    consider investing in our common stock; 

the availability of information concerning the trading prices
    and volume of our common stock; 

the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares
    of our common stock; and 

35

Table of Contents   

our ability to obtain equity financing for the continuation of
    our operations. 

Pending securities litigation could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial
    condition.   

We, our directors, Chief Executive Officer and former Chief
Financial Officer are defendants in several securities lawsuits.
See  Item 3. Legal Proceedings,  for a more
detailed description of these proceedings. These actions remain
in preliminary stages and it is not yet possible to determine
their ultimate outcome at this time. We, therefore, cannot
provide assurance that the legal and other costs associated with
the defense of these actions, the time required to be spent by
management and the Board of Directors on these matters and the
ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations
    of our directors and officers liability insurance could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows.   

As discussed above under the caption  Pending securities
litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business,
liquidity and financial condition,  our directors, Chief
Executive Officer and former Chief Financial Officer are
defendants in several securities lawsuits. See
 Item 3. Legal Proceedings  for a more detailed
description of these proceedings. Under Maryland law, our
charter and our bylaws, we have an obligation to indemnify and
pay expenses in advance for our directors and officers to the
fullest extent permitted by Maryland law in relation to these
matters. Such indemnification may have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial position, results of operations or
cash flows to the extent insurance does not cover our costs. The
insurance carrier that provides our directors and officers
liability policy may seek to rescind or deny coverage with
respect to these matters or we may not have sufficient coverage
under such policies. If the insurance carrier is successful in
rescinding or denying coverage to us and/or some of our
directors or officers, or if we do not have sufficient coverage
under our policies, our business, financial position, results of
operations or cash flows may be adversely affected.

Continuing negative publicity may adversely affect our
    business.   

As a result of the delay in the filing of this
Form  10-K,  our
internal control deficiencies and the restatement of our
financial statements, we have been the subject of continuing
negative publicity. This negative publicity may inhibit our
ability to attract new clients and business partners and have an
effect on the terms under which some clients are willing to
continue to do business with us. Continuing negative publicity
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Risks Related to our
Business  

The termination of our status as the exclusive recommended
    provider of mortgage products and services promoted by the
    residential and commercial real estate brokerage business owned
    and operated by Realogy s affiliate, NRT, the title and
    settlement services business owned and operated by
    Realogy s affiliate, TRG and the relocation business owned
    and operated by Realogy s affiliate, Cartus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows.   

Under the terms of the strategic relationship agreement, we are
the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans to the
independent sales associates affiliated with the residential and
commercial real estate brokerage business owned and operated by
Realogy s affiliate, NRT, certain customers of Realogy, and
all  U.S.-based 
employees of Cendant. The marketing agreement similarly provides
that we are the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans
and related products to the independent sales associates of
Realogy s real estate brokerage franchisees, which include
Coldwell Banker, Century 21 and ERA. See  Item 1.
Business   Arrangements with Realogy  
Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and PHH, 
   Strategic Relationship Agreement  and
   Marketing Agreements  in this
Form  10-K.  For the
year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 45% of loans
originated by our Mortgage Production segment were derived from
these

36

Table of Contents   

sources. We anticipate that a similar portion of mortgage loan
originations from our Mortgage Production segment will be
comprised of business arising out of our arrangements with
Realogy, including the Mortgage Venture. Cendant has spun-off
its real estate services division, Realogy, into an independent,
publicly traded company, which may require certain amendments to
our agreements with Cendant and Realogy in order to continue to
obtain the full benefit of these agreements following the
Realogy Spin-Off. There can be no assurances that we will be
able to obtain any amendments we believe are necessary or
appropriate at all or, if obtained, that these amendments will
be on terms favorable to us.

Pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage Venture operating
agreement, beginning on February 1, 2015, Realogy will have
the right at any time upon two years  notice to us to
terminate its interest in the Mortgage Venture. A termination of
the Mortgage Venture could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and our results of operations. In addition,
the strategic relationship agreement provides that Realogy has
the right to terminate the covenant requiring it to exclusively
recommend us as the provider of mortgage loans to the
independent sales associates affiliated with the residential and
commercial real estate brokerage business owned and operated by
Realogy s affiliate, NRT, certain customers of Realogy, and
all  U.S.-based 
employees of Cendant, following notice and a cure period, if:

we materially breach any representation, warranty, covenant or
    other agreement contained in the strategic relationship
    agreement, marketing agreement, trademark license agreements or
    certain other related agreements; 

we or the Mortgage Venture become subject to any regulatory
    order or governmental proceeding and such order or proceeding
    prevents or materially impairs the Mortgage Venture s
    ability to originate mortgages for any period of time (which
    order or proceeding is not generally applicable to companies in
    the mortgage lending business) in a manner that adversely
    affects the value of one or more of the quarterly distributions
    to be paid by the Mortgage Venture to its members; 

the Mortgage Venture otherwise is not permitted by law,
    regulation, rule, order or other legal restriction to perform
    its origination function in any jurisdiction, but in such case
    exclusivity may be terminated only with respect to such
    jurisdiction; or 

the Mortgage Venture does not comply with its obligations to
    complete an acquisition of a mortgage loan origination company
    under the terms of the strategic relationship agreement. 

If Realogy were to terminate its exclusivity obligations with
respect to the Mortgage Venture, it would adversely affect our
business, financial position, results of operations and cash
flows.

Adverse developments in general business, economic,
    environmental and political conditions could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows.   

Our businesses and operations are sensitive to general business
and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions
include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation,
fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, including the
secondary market for mortgage loans, and the general condition
of the U.S. economy and housing market, both nationally and
in the regions in which we conduct our businesses. A significant
portion of our mortgage loan originations are made in a small
number of geographical areas which include: California, New
Jersey, New York, Florida and Texas.

A host of factors beyond our control could cause fluctuations in
these conditions, including political events, such as civil
unrest, war or acts or threats of war or terrorism and
environmental events, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other
natural disasters. Adverse developments in these conditions and
resulting general business and economic conditions, including
through recession, downturn or otherwise, either in the economy
generally or in those regions in which a large portion of our
business is conducted, could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

Our business is significantly affected by monetary and related
policies of the federal government, its agencies and
government-sponsored entities. We are particularly affected by
the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the
supply of money and credit in the United States. The Federal
Reserve Board s policies

37

Table of Contents   

affect the size of the mortgage origination market, the pricing
of our interest-earning assets and the cost of our
interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in any of these policies
are beyond our control, difficult to predict and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.

Our business is affected by fluctuations in interest
    rates, and if we fail to manage our exposure to changes in
    interest rates effectively, our business, financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows could be adversely
    affected.   

Our principal market exposure is to interest rate risk,
specifically long-term U.S. Treasury and mortgage loan
interest rates due to their impact on mortgage-related assets
and commitments and also the London Interbank Offered Rate
( LIBOR ) and commercial paper interest rates due to
their impact on variable borrowings and other interest rate
sensitive liabilities. The level and volatility of interest
rates significantly affect the mortgage lending industry. A
decline in mortgage interest rates generally increases the
demand for home loans as more potential homeowners seek mortgage
loans and more borrowers seek to refinance existing loans, but
also generally leads to accelerated payoffs in our mortgage
servicing portfolio, which negatively impacts the value of our
MSRs. Historically, as interest rates increase, mortgage loan
production decreases, particularly production from loan
refinancing activity. An environment of gradual interest rate
increases may, however, signify an improving economy or
increasing real estate values, which in turn may stimulate
increased home buying activity. Generally, in periods of reduced
mortgage loan production the associated profit margins also
decline due to increased competition among mortgage loan
originators and higher unit costs, thus further reducing
revenues from our Mortgage Production segment. Conversely, in a
rising interest rate environment, revenues from our Mortgage
Servicing segment generally increase because mortgage loan
prepayment rates tend to decrease, extending the average life of
our servicing portfolio and reducing the amortization and
impairment of our MSRs. We attempt to manage our interest rate
risk, in part, through the use of derivatives, particularly swap
contracts, forward delivery commitments, futures, and options
contracts to manage and reduce this risk. Our main objective in
managing interest rate risk is to moderate the impact of changes
in interest rates on our earnings over time. Our interest rate
risk management strategies may result in significant earnings
volatility in the short term. The success of our interest rate
risk management strategy is largely dependent on our ability to
predict the earnings sensitivity of our Mortgage Servicing and
Mortgage Production segments in various interest rate
environments, which is inherently uncertain. Significant changes
in current market conditions and/or the assumptions used
(including the relationship of the change in the value of the
MSRs to the change in the value of derivatives) in developing
our estimates of borrower behavior and future interest rates
could result in a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating
    our risks associated with changes in interest rates.   

We employ various economic hedging strategies to attempt to
mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many
of our assets, including our mortgage loans held for sale,
interest rate lock commitments and our MSRs. We use various
derivative and other financial instruments to provide a level of
protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy
can protect us completely. Our hedging activities may include
entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to
purchase these items, futures and forward contracts, and/or
purchasing or selling U.S. Treasury securities. Our hedging
decisions in the future will be determined in light of the facts
and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our
current hedging strategy. We also seek to manage interest rate
risk in our U.S. residential real estate finance business
partially by monitoring and seeking to maintain an appropriate
balance between our loan production volume and the size of our
mortgage servicing portfolio.

Our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating the
risks related to changes in interest rates. Poorly designed
strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually
increase our risk and losses. There have been periods, and it is
likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we
incur losses after accounting for our hedging strategies. The
success of our interest rate risk management strategy is largely
dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of
our loan servicing and loan production activities in various
interest rate environments. Our hedging strategies also rely on
assumptions and projections regarding our assets and

38

Table of Contents   

general market factors. If these assumptions and projections
prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate
the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we
may incur losses that could adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Our business relies, in part, on warehouse, repurchase and
    other credit facilities to fund mortgage loans and vehicle
    purchases. If any of our warehouse, repurchase and other credit
    facilities are terminated as a result of our breach of the
    agreement or are not renewed, we may be unable to find
    replacement financing on commercially favorable terms, if at
    all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

Our business relies, in part, on warehouse, repurchase and other
credit facilities to fund mortgage loans and vehicle purchases,
a significant portion of which is short-term. If any of our
warehouse, repurchase or other credit facilities are terminated
as a result of our breach of the agreement or are not renewed,
we may be unable to find replacement financing on commercially
favorable terms, if at all, which could have a material and
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive
    and, if we fail to meet the competitive challenges in our
    industries, our business, financial position, results of
    operations or cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected.   

We operate in highly competitive industries that could become
even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative,
regulatory and technological changes. Certain of our competitors
are larger than we are and have access to greater financial
resources than we do. Competition for mortgage loans comes
primarily from large commercial banks and savings institutions,
which typically have lower funding costs and are less reliant
than we are on the sale of mortgages into the secondary markets
to maintain their liquidity. In addition, technological advances
and heightened
 e-commerce  activity
have generally increased consumers  access to products and
services. This has intensified competition among banking, as
well as non-banking companies, in offering financial products
and services, with or without the need for a physical presence.
If competition in the mortgage services industry continues to
increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. We believe the mortgage industry will become increasingly
competitive in 2007 as industry margins and volumes contract due
to higher interest rates and other competitive factors. We
intend to take advantage of this environment by leveraging our
existing mortgage origination services platform to enter into
new outsourcing relationship as more companies determine that it
is no longer economically feasible to compete in the industry,
but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this
effort.

The fleet management industry in which we operate is highly
competitive. We compete against large national competitors, such
as GE Commercial Finance Fleet Services, Wheels, Inc.,
Automotive Resources International, Lease Plan International and
other local and regional competitors, including numerous
competitors who focus on one or two products. Competitive
pressures could adversely affect our revenues, and operating
results by decreasing our market share or depressing the prices
that we can charge.

Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored
    mortgage programs, or disruptions in the secondary markets for
    mortgage loans, could adversely affect our business, financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows.   

Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to
institutional investors depends to a significant degree on
programs administered by government-sponsored enterprises such
as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and others that
facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the
secondary market. These government-sponsored enterprises play a
powerful role in the residential mortgage industry and we have
significant business relationships with them. Proposals are
being considered in Congress and by various regulatory
authorities that would affect the manner in which these
government-sponsored enterprises conduct their business,
including proposals to establish a new independent agency to
regulate the government-sponsored enterprises, to require them
to register their stock with the SEC, to reduce or limit certain
business benefits that they receive from the
U.S. government and to limit the size of the mortgage loan
portfolios that they may hold. Any discontinuation of, or
significant reduction in, the operation of these
government-sponsored enterprises

39

Table of Contents   

could adversely affect our business, financial position, results
of operations or cash flows. Also, any significant adverse
change in the level of activity in the secondary market or the
underwriting criteria of these government-sponsored enterprises
could adversely affect our business, financial position, results
of operations or cash flows.

The businesses in which we engage are complex and heavily
    regulated, and changes in the regulatory environment affecting
    our businesses could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, rules
and regulations that affect our business, including mortgage-
and real estate-related regulations such as RESPA, which
restricts the payment of fees or other things of value in
consideration for the referral of real estate settlement
services, including mortgage loans, as well as rules and
regulations related to taxation, vicarious liability and
accounting. Our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing
segments, in general, are heavily regulated by mortgage lending
laws at the federal, state and local levels, and proposals for
further regulation of the financial services industry are
continually being introduced. The establishment of the Mortgage
Venture and the continuing relationship between and among the
Mortgage Venture, Realogy and us will be subject to the
anti-kickback requirements of RESPA.

The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requires us to disclose certain
information about the mortgage loans we originate and purchase,
such as the race and gender of our customers, the disposition of
mortgage applications, income levels and interest rate (i.e.
annual percentage rate) information. We believe that publication
of such information may lead to heightened scrutiny of all
mortgage lenders  loan pricing and underwriting practices.

We are also subject to privacy regulations. We manage highly
sensitive non-public personal information in all of our
operating segments, which is regulated by law. Problems with the
safeguarding and proper use of this information could result in
regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely
affect our reputation, financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.

With respect to our Fleet Management Services segment, we could
be subject to unlimited liability as the owner of leased
vehicles in two major provinces in Canada and are subject to
limited liability in the Province of Ontario and as many as
fifteen jurisdictions in the United States under the legal
theory of vicarious liability.

Congress, state legislatures, federal and state regulatory
agencies and other professional and regulatory entities review
existing laws, rules, regulations and policies and periodically
propose changes that could significantly affect or restrict the
manner in which we conduct our business. It is possible that one
or more legislative proposals may be adopted or one or more
regulatory changes, changes in interpretations of laws and
regulations, judicial decisions or governmental enforcement
actions may be implemented that would have a material adverse
effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. For example, certain trends in the regulatory environment
could result in increased pressure from our clients for us to
assume more residual risk on the value of the vehicles at the
end of the lease term. If this were to occur, it could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our failure to comply with such laws, rules or regulations,
whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties
or potential litigation liabilities, including costs,
settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.

Our Fleet Management Services business contracts with
    various government agencies, which may be subject to audit and
    potential reduction of costs and fees.   

Contracts with federal, state and local government agencies may
be subject to audit, which could result in the disallowance of
certain fees and costs. These audits may be conducted by
government agencies and can result in the disallowance of
significant costs and expenses if the auditing agency
determines, in its discretion, that certain costs and expenses
were not warranted or were excessive. Disallowance of costs and
expenses, if pervasive or significant, could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

40

Table of Contents   

If certain change in control transactions occur some of
    our mortgage loan origination arrangements with financial
    institutions could be subject to termination at the election of
    such institutions.   

For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 50% of
our mortgage loan originations were derived from our financial
institutions channel, pursuant to which we provide outsourced
mortgage loan services for customers of our financial
institution clients such as Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, TD
Banknorth, N.A. and Charles Schwab Bank. Our agreements with
some of these financial institutions provide the applicable
financial institution with the right to terminate its
relationship with us prior to the expiration of the contract
term if we complete a change in control transaction with certain
third-party acquirers. Accordingly, completion of such a change
in control transaction could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. Furthermore, the existence of these termination rights
could discourage offers from third parties seeking to acquire us
or could reduce the amount of consideration an acquirer would be
willing to pay in an acquisition transaction. Although in some
cases these contracts would require the payment of liquidated
damages in such event, such amounts may not fully compensate us
for all of our actual or expected loss of business opportunity
for the remaining duration of the contract term.

Unanticipated liabilities of our Fleet Management Services
    segment as a result of damages in connection with motor vehicle
    accidents under the theory of vicarious liability could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.   

Our Fleet Management Services segment could be liable for
damages in connection with motor vehicle accidents under the
theory of vicarious liability in certain jurisdictions in which
we do business. Under this theory, companies that lease motor
vehicles may be subject to liability for the tortious acts of
their lessees, even in situations where the leasing company has
not been negligent. Our Fleet Management Services segment is
subject to unlimited liability as the owner of leased vehicles
in two major provinces in Canada and is subject to limited
liability (e.g., in the event of a lessee s failure to meet
certain insurance or financial responsibility requirements) in
the Province of Ontario and as many as fifteen jurisdictions in
the United States. Although our lease contracts require that
each lessee indemnifies us against such liabilities, in the
event that a lessee lacks adequate insurance coverage or
financial resources to satisfy these indemnity provisions we
could be liable for property damage or injuries caused by the
vehicles that we lease.

On August 10, 2005 a new federal law was enacted in the
United States which preempted those state vicarious liability
laws that imposed unlimited liability on a vehicle lessor. This
law, however, does not preempt existing state laws that impose
limited liability on a vehicle lessor in the event that certain
insurance or financial responsibility requirements for the
leased vehicles are not met. Prior to the enactment of this law,
our Fleet Management Services segment was subject to unlimited
liability in the states of New York and Maine and the District
of Columbia. It is unclear at this time whether any of these
three jurisdictions will enact legislation imposing limited or
an alternative form of liability on vehicle lessors. In
addition, the scope, application and enforceability of the new
federal law have not been fully tested. For example, a state
trial court in New York has ruled that the law is
unconstitutional. The ultimate disposition of this New York case
and its impact on the new federal law are uncertain at this time.

Additionally, a new law was recently enacted in the Province of
Ontario setting a cap of $1,000,000 on a lessor s liability
for personal injuries for accidents occurring on or after
March 1, 2006. The scope, application and enforceability of
this new provincial law also have not been fully tested.

A failure to maintain our investment grade ratings could
    impact our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms and
    could negatively impact our business.   

As of September 30, 2006, our senior debt credit ratings
from Moody s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor s and Fitch Ratings are Baa3, BBB and BBB+,
respectively. Our short-term debt credit ratings from
Moody s Investors Service, Standard & Poor s
and Fitch Ratings are P-3, A-2 and F-2, respectively. Among
other things, maintenance of our investment grade ratings
requires that we demonstrate high levels of liquidity, including
access to alternative sources of funding such as committed lines
of credit, as well as a capital structure and leverage
appropriate for companies in our industry.

41

Table of Contents   

In the event our credit ratings were to drop below investment
grade, our access to the public corporate debt markets may be
severely limited. The cut-off for investment grade is generally
considered to be a long-term rating of Baa3, BBB- and BBB- for
Moody s Investors Service, Standard & Poor s
and Fitch Ratings, respectively. In the event of a ratings
downgrade below investment grade, we may be required to rely
upon alternative sources of financing, such as bank lines and
private debt placements (secured and unsecured). A drop in our
credit ratings could also increase our cost of borrowing under
our credit facilities. Furthermore, we may be unable to retain
all of our existing bank credit commitments beyond the then
existing maturity dates. As a consequence, our cost of financing
could rise significantly, thereby negatively impacting our
ability to finance some of our capital-intensive activities,
such as our ongoing investment in MSRs and other retained
interests.

Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how
    we report our financial condition and results of operations, and
    they may require management to make assumptions and estimates
    about matters that are inherently uncertain.   

Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we
record and report our financial condition and results of
operations. We have identified several accounting policies as
being critical to the presentation of our financial condition
and results of operations because they require management to
make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters
that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that
materially different amounts would be recorded under different
conditions or using different assumptions. Because of the
inherent uncertainty of the estimates and assumptions associated
with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any
assurance that we will not make subsequent significant
adjustments to the related amounts recorded in this
Form  10-K.  See
 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Critical Accounting Policies  of this
Form  10-K  for more
information on our critical accounting policies.

Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may
    adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability and
    financial condition.   

Our financial statements are subject to the application of
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which are
periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of
accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations
over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised
accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that
are issued from time to time by recognized authoritative bodies,
including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC.
Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues,
profitability or financial condition. In addition, new or
revised accounting standards may impact certain of our leasing
or lending products, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information
    provided by or on behalf of our customers and
    counterparties.   

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on
information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and
counterparties, including financial statements and other
financial information. We also may rely on representations of
customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness
of that information and, with respect to financial statements,
on reports of independent auditors. Our financial condition and
results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent
we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or
are materially misleading.

An interruption in or breach of our information systems
    may result in lost business, regulatory actions or litigation or
    otherwise harm our reputation.   

We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to
conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our
information systems or the third-party information systems on
which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could
result in fewer loan applications being received, slower
processing of applications, reduced efficiency in loan
servicing, and interruptions in our Fleet Management Services
business. We are required to comply with significant U.S. and
state regulations, as well as similar laws in other countries in
which we operate, with respect to the handling of consumer
information, and a breach in security of our

42

Table of Contents   

information systems could result in regulatory action and
litigation against us. If a failure, interruption or breach
occurs, it may not be adequately addressed by us or the third
parties on which we rely. Such a failure, interruption or breach
could harm our reputation, revenues, profitability and business
prospects.

The success and growth of our business may be adversely
    affected if we do not adapt to and implement technological
    changes.   

Our business is dependent upon technological advancement, such
as the ability to process loan applications over the internet,
accept electronic payments and provide immediate status updates.
To the extent that we become reliant on any particular
technology or technological solution, we may be harmed if the
technology or technological solution:

becomes non-compliant with existing industry standards or is no
    longer supported by vendors; 

fails to meet or exceed the capabilities of our
    competitors  corresponding technologies or technological
    solutions; 

becomes increasingly expensive to service, retain and
    update; or 

becomes subject to third-party claims of copyright or patent
    infringement. 

Our failure to acquire necessary technologies or technological
solutions could limit our ability to remain competitive and
could also limit our ability to increase our cost efficiencies,
which could harm our business, financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

Risks Related to the
Spin-Off  

Prior to the Spin-Off, we were not an independent company
    and, following the Spin-Off, there is continuing uncertainty
    that we will be able to make, on a timely or cost-effective
    basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent
    company.   

Prior to the Spin-Off, our business was operated by Cendant as
part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an
independent company. Cendant or one of its affiliates performed
various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited
to:

selected human resources related functions; 

tax administration; 

selected legal and accounting functions as well as external
    reporting, treasury administration, investor relations, internal
    audit, insurance and facilities functions and selected
    information technology and telecommunications services. 

Neither Cendant nor any of its affiliates, including Realogy,
has any obligation to provide these functions to us other than
the transition services that were provided by Cendant and its
affiliates under the transition services agreement. (See
 Item 1. Business   Arrangements with
Cendant   Transition Services Agreement  for more
information.) Once the transition services agreement expires in
2007, if we do not (i) have in place our own systems,
corporate staff and business functions, (ii) have
agreements with other providers of these services or
(iii) make these changes cost-effectively, we may not be
able to operate our business effectively and our profitability
may decline. If Cendant or its affiliates do not continue to
perform effectively the services that are called for under the
transition services agreement, we may not be able to operate our
business effectively. We have not procured alternative
arrangements for certain of the services provided to us under
the transition services agreement. With respect to the
outsourced information technology services currently provided to
us under the transition services agreement, we are pursuing
alternative arrangements, including (i) extending the
transition services agreement with Cendant to provide for the
continuation of the outsourced information technology services
and entering into our own independent relationship with the
existing third-party service provider for these services; or
(ii) engaging a new third party to provide these services.
While we believe we will be able to implement either of these
alternative arrangements in a timely manner, there can be no
assurances that this result

43

Table of Contents   

will occur. If we are unable to enter into either of these
alternative arrangements in a timely manner, it will likely have
a material and adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our agreements with Cendant and Realogy may not reflect
    terms that would have resulted from arm s-length
    negotiations between unaffiliated parties.   

The agreements related to our separation from Cendant and the
continuation of certain business arrangements with Cendant and
Realogy, including the separation, transition services,
strategic relationship, marketing and other agreements, were not
the result of arm s-length negotiations and thus may not
reflect terms that would have resulted from arm s-length
negotiations between two unaffiliated parties. This could
include, among other things, allocation of assets, liabilities,
rights, indemnities and other obligations between Cendant,
Realogy and us. See  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Realogy  in this
Form  10-K. 

We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification
    obligations to Cendant or Realogy, or we may not be able to
    collect on indemnification rights from Cendant or
    Realogy.   

In connection with the Spin-Off, we and Cendant and our
respective affiliates have agreed to indemnify each other for
certain liabilities and obligations. Our indemnification
obligations could be significant. We are required to indemnify
Cendant for any taxes incurred by it and its affiliates as a
result of any action, misrepresentation or omission by us or one
of our subsidiaries that causes the distribution of our common
stock by Cendant or transactions relating to the internal
reorganization to fail to qualify as tax-free. We are also
responsible for 13.7% of any taxes resulting from the failure of
the Spin-Off or transactions relating to the internal
reorganization to qualify as tax-free, which failure is not due
to the actions, misrepresentations or omissions of Cendant or us
or our respective subsidiaries. Such percentage was based on the
relative pro forma net book values of Cendant and us as of
September 30, 2004, without giving effect to any
adjustments to the book values of certain long-lived assets that
may be required as a result of the Spin-Off and the related
transactions. We cannot determine whether we will have to
indemnify Cendant or its current or former affiliates for any
substantial obligations in the future. There also can be no
assurances that if Cendant or Realogy is required to indemnify
us for any substantial obligations, they will be able to satisfy
those obligations.

Certain arrangements and agreements that we have entered
    into with Cendant in connection with the Spin-Off could impact
    our tax and other assets and liabilities in the future, and our
    financial statements are subject to future adjustments as a
    result of our obligations under those arrangements and
    agreements.   

In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into certain
arrangements and agreements with Cendant that could impact our
tax and other assets and liabilities in the future. See
 Item 1. Business   Arrangements with
Cendant  in this
Form  10-K.  For
example, we are party to an amended and restated tax sharing
agreement with Cendant that contains provisions governing the
allocation of liability for taxes between Cendant and us,
indemnification for liability for taxes and responsibility for
preparing and filing tax returns and defending contested tax
positions, as well as other tax-related matters including the
sharing of tax information and cooperating with the preparation
and filing of tax returns. Pursuant to the tax sharing
agreement, our tax assets and liabilities will be affected by
Cendant s future tax returns and may also be impacted by
the results of audits of Cendant s prior tax years,
including the settlement of any such audits. In the fourth
quarter of 2005, we made financial statement adjustments to
reflect information reported on Cendant s 2004 tax returns.
See Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies  in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K.  As
such, our financial statements are subject to future adjustments
which may not be fully resolved until the audits of
Cendant s prior years  returns are completed.

Our historical financial information may not be
    representative of results we would have achieved as an
    independent company or will achieve in the future.   

Because our business has changed substantially due to the
reorganization in connection with the Spin-Off, our historical
financial information does not reflect what our results of
operations, financial position or cash flows would have been had
we been an independent company during the periods presented. For
this reason, as well as

44

Table of Contents   

the inherent uncertainties of our business, the historical
financial information is not indicative of what our results of
operations, financial position, cash flows or costs and expenses
will be in the future. See Note 25,  Discontinued
Operations  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K. 

Risks Related to our
Common Stock  

There may be a limited public market for our common stock
    and our stock price may experience volatility.   

Prior to the Spin-Off, there was no public market for our common
stock. In connection with the Spin-Off, our common stock was
listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
 PHH.  From February 1, 2005 through
November 17, 2006, the closing trading price for our common
stock has ranged from $20.34 to $30.51. However, there can be no
assurance that an active trading market for our common stock
will be sustained in the future. In addition, the stock market
has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume
fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating
performance of particular companies. Changes in earnings
estimates by analysts and economic and other external factors
may have a significant impact on the market price of our common
stock. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our
common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading
market for our common stock and our ability to raise capital
through future equity financing.

Provisions in our charter documents, the Maryland General
    Corporation Law (the  MGCL ) and our stockholder
    rights plan may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third
    party.   

Our charter and by-laws contain several provisions that may make
it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us
without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions
include, among other things, a classified board of directors,
advance notice for raising business or making nominations at
meetings and  blank check  preferred stock. Blank
check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without
stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series
of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion,
voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible
securities with no limitations on conversion, as our board of
directors may determine, including rights to dividends and
proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock.

We are also subject to certain provisions of the MGCL which
could delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender
offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise
result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market
price for their common stock or may otherwise be in the best
interest of our stockholders. These include, among other
provisions:

The  business combinations  statute which prohibits
    transactions between a Maryland corporation and an interested
    stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for
    five years after the most recent date on which the interested
    stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and 

The  control share  acquisition statute which provides
    that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a
    control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the
    extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to
    be cast on the matter. 

Our by-laws contain a provision exempting any share of our
capital stock from the control share acquisition statute to the
fullest extent permitted by the MGCL. However, our board of
directors has the exclusive right to amend our by-laws and,
subject to their fiduciary duties, could at any time in the
future amend the by-laws to remove this exemption provision.

In addition, we entered into a Rights Agreement, dated as of
January 28, 2005, with The Bank of New York, as rights
agent. This agreement entitles our stockholders to acquire
shares of our common stock at a price equal to 50% of the
then-current market value in limited circumstances when a third
party acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our
outstanding common stock or commences a tender offer for at
least 15% of our common stock, in each case, in a transaction
that our board of directors does not approve. Because, under
these limited circumstances, all of our stockholders would
become entitled to effect discounted purchases of our common
stock, other than the person or group that caused the rights to
become exercisable, the existence of these

45

Table of Contents   

rights would significantly increase the cost of acquiring
control of our company without the support of our board of
directors. The existence of the rights agreement could therefore
deter potential acquirers and reduce the likelihood that
stockholders receive a premium for our common stock in an
acquisition.

Certain provisions of the Mortgage Venture Operating
    Agreement that we have with Realogy could discourage third
    parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of
    consideration they would be willing to pay our stockholders in
    an acquisition transaction.   

Pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage Venture operating
agreement, as amended on May 12, 2005 and March 31,
2006, Realogy has the right to terminate the Mortgage Venture,
at its election, at any time on or after February 1, 2015
by providing two years  notice to us. In addition, under
the Mortgage Venture operating agreement, Realogy may terminate
the Mortgage Venture if we effect a change in control
transaction involving certain competitors or other third
parties. In connection with such termination, we would be
required to make a liquidated damages payment in cash to Realogy
of an amount equal to the sum of (i) two times the Mortgage
Venture s trailing twelve months net income (except that,
in the case of a termination by Realogy following a change in
control of us, we may be required to make a cash payment to
Realogy in an amount equal to its allocable share of the
Mortgage Venture s trailing twelve months net income
multiplied by (a) if the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement is terminated prior to its twelfth anniversary, the
number of years remaining in the first twelve years of the term
of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, or (b) if the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement is terminated after its
tenth anniversary, two years), and (ii) all costs
reasonably incurred by Cendant and its subsidiaries in unwinding
its relationship with us pursuant to the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement and the related agreements, including the
strategic relationship agreement, marketing agreement and
trademark license agreements. The existence of these termination
provisions could discourage third parties from seeking to
acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they
would be willing to pay to our stockholders in an acquisition
transaction. See  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Realogy   Mortgage Venture Between
Realogy and PHH  of this
Form  10-K. 

Item 1B.  
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.  
     
      Properties   

Our principal offices are located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt.
Laurel, New Jersey 08054.

Mortgage Production and
Mortgage Servicing Segments  

Our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments have
centralized operations in approximately 800,000 square feet
of shared leased office space in the Mt. Laurel, New Jersey
area. We have a second area of centralized offices that are
shared by our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing
segments in Jacksonville, Florida, where approximately
220,000 square feet is occupied. In addition, our Mortgage
Production segment leases 28 smaller offices located throughout
the United States and our Mortgage Servicing segment leases one
additional office located in the state of New York.

Fleet Management
Services Segment  

Our Fleet Management Services segment maintains a headquarters
office in a 210,000 square-foot office building in Sparks,
Maryland. Our Fleet Management Services segment also leases
office space and marketing centers in five locations in Canada
and has five smaller regional locations throughout the United
States.

Item 3.  
     
      Legal Proceedings   

We are party to various claims and legal proceedings from time
to time related to contract disputes and other commercial,
employment and tax matters. Except as disclosed below, we are
not aware of any legal proceedings that we believe could have,
individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on
our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

46

Table of Contents   

In March and April 2006, several class actions were filed
against us, our Chief Executive Officer and our former Chief
Financial Officer in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey. The plaintiffs purport to represent a
class consisting of all persons (other than our officers and
directors and their affiliates) who purchased our Common stock
between May 12, 2005 and March 1, 2006 (the
 Class Period ). The plaintiffs allege, among
other things, that the defendants violated Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and
Rule  10b-5 
thereunder. Additionally, two derivative actions were filed in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
against us, our former Chief Financial Officer and each member
of our Board of Directors. One of these derivative actions has
since been voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs. The
remaining derivative action alleges breaches of fiduciary duty
and related claims based on substantially the same factual
allegations as in the class action suits.

Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, and because
these actions are at a preliminary stage, we cannot accurately
predict the ultimate outcome of these matters at this time. We
intend to vigorously defend against the alleged claims in each
of these matters. The ultimate resolution of these matters could
have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Item 4.  
     
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

PART II 

Item 5.  
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities   

Market Price of Common
Stock  

Shares of our Common stock are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange (the  NYSE ) under the symbol  PHH 
and began trading on that exchange immediately after the
Spin-Off from Cendant Corporation on February 1, 2005. The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our
Common stock as reported by the NYSE:

As of November 10, 2006, there were approximately 7,517
holders of record of our Common stock. As of that date, there
were approximately 80,000 total holders of our Common stock
including beneficial holders whose securities are held in the
name of a registered clearing agency or its nominee.

Dividend
Policy  

Dividends declared per share of our Common stock for the
quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004,
September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2004 were $0.66,
$0.67, $0.66 and $0.67, respectively, after giving effect to our
January 28, 2005 stock split as discussed below, and were
paid to our former parent, Cendant. No dividends were declared
during the year ended December 31, 2005.

The declaration and payment of future dividends by us will be
subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will
depend upon many factors, including our financial condition,
earnings, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries,
legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors
deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Many of our
subsidiaries (including certain consolidated partnerships,
trusts and other non-corporate entities) are subject to
restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or otherwise
transfer funds to other consolidated subsidiaries and,
ultimately, to PHH Corporation (the parent company). These
restrictions relate to loan agreements applicable to certain of
our asset-backed debt arrangements and to regulatory
restrictions applicable to the equity of our insurance
subsidiary, Atrium. The aggregate restricted net assets of these

47

Table of Contents   

subsidiaries totaled $1.4 billion as of December 31,
2005. These restrictions on net assets of certain subsidiaries,
however, do not directly limit our ability to pay dividends from
consolidated retained earnings. Pursuant to the terms of the
indentures governing our outstanding term notes, we may not pay
dividends on our Common stock in the event that our ratio of
debt to equity exceeds 6.5:1, after giving effect to the
dividend payment. The indentures include other covenants that
may restrict our ability to pay dividends, including a
requirement that our ratio of debt to tangible equity exceeds
10:1. In addition, the Amended Credit Facility, the
$500 Million Agreement and the Tender Support Facility
(each as defined in  Item 7. Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital
Resources   Indebtedness   Unsecured
Debt   Credit Facilities ) each include various
covenants that may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our
Common stock, including covenants which require that we
maintain: (i) on the last day of each fiscal quarter, net
worth of $1.0 billion plus 25% of net income, if positive,
for each fiscal quarter after December 31, 2004 and
(ii) at any time, a ratio of indebtedness to tangible net
worth no greater than 10:1. Based on our assessment of these
requirements as of December 31, 2005, we do not believe
that these restrictions will materially limit dividend payments
on our Common stock in the foreseeable future. However, we do
not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common stock in
the foreseeable future.

Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities  

The following table presents our repurchases of our Common stock
during the quarter ended December 31, 2005:

Item 6.  
     
      Selected Financial Data   

The selected consolidated financial data set forth below has
been restated to reflect adjustments that are further discussed
in the  Explanatory Note  and in Note 2,
 Prior Period Adjustments  in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K. 

As discussed under  Item 1. Business,  on
February 1, 2005, we began operating as an independent,
publicly traded company pursuant to the Spin-Off from Cendant.
Prior to the Spin-Off and subsequent to December 31, 2004,
we underwent an internal reorganization whereby we distributed
our former relocation and fuel card businesses to Cendant, and
Cendant contributed its former appraisal business, STARS, to us.
STARS was previously our wholly owned subsidiary until it was
distributed, in the form of a dividend, to a wholly owned
subsidiary of Cendant not within our ownership structure on
December 31, 2002. Cendant then owned STARS through its
subsidiaries outside of our ownership from December 31,
2002 until it contributed STARS to us as part of the internal
reorganization discussed above.

Pursuant to SFAS No. 141, Cendant s contribution
of STARS to us was accounted for as a transfer of net assets
between entities under common control and, therefore, the
financial position and results of operations for STARS are
included in all periods presented. Pursuant to
SFAS No. 144, the financial position and results of

48

Table of Contents   

operations of our former relocation and fuel card businesses
have been segregated and reported as discontinued operations for
all periods presented (see Note 25,  Discontinued
Operations  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K  for more
information).

In connection with and in order to consummate the Spin-Off, on
January 27, 2005, our Board of Directors authorized and
approved a 52,684-for-one common stock split, to be effected by
a stock dividend at such ratio. The record date with regard to
such stock split was January 28, 2005. All references to
the number of shares of Common stock and earnings per share
amounts presented below reflect this stock split.

The selected consolidated financial data set forth below present
our historical financial data for the periods indicated. Because
our business has changed substantially due to the reorganization
in connection with the Spin-Off, and we now conduct our business
as an independent, publicly traded company, our historical
financial information does not reflect what our results of
operations, financial position or cash flows would have been had
we been an independent, publicly traded company during all of
the periods presented. Therefore, the historical financial
information presented herein is not indicative of what our
results of operations, financial position or cash flows will be
in the future.

49

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    Income from continuing operations and Net income for the year
    ended December 31, 2005 included pre-tax Spin-Off related
    expenses of $41 million. See Note 3,  Spin-Off
    from Cendant  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  

(2)  
     
    During 2004, we acquired First Fleet, a national provider of
    fleet management services to companies that maintain private
    truck fleets. See Note 4,  Acquisitions  in the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  

(3)  
     
    Income from continuing operations and Net income for the year
    ended December 31, 2003 included a pre-tax goodwill
    impairment charge of $102 million ($96 million net of
    income taxes). See Note 6,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  During
    2003, we consolidated Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage
    Trust ( Bishop s Gate ) pursuant to FIN 46
    and recognized the related cumulative effect of accounting
    change. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    included in this
    Form  10-K.  

(4)  
     
    Loss from continuing operations and Net income for the year
    ended December 31, 2002 included a goodwill impairment
    charge of $100 million. 

(5)  
     
    On January 1, 2002, we adopted the non-amortization
    provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets  ( SFAS No. 142 ).
    Accordingly, our results of operations for 2001 reflect the
    amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets,
    while our results of operations for 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 do
    not reflect such amortization. Had we applied the
    non-amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 during
    2001, Net income would have been $243 million. On
    March 1, 2001, we completed the acquisition of the fleet
    management services business of Avis Group Holdings, Inc.
    ( Avis  fleet business ), which formed our Fleet
    Management Services segment and materially impacted our results
    of operations and financial position. Net revenues for the Fleet
    Management Services segment during the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were
    $1,711 million, $1,578 million, $1,369 million,
    $1,364 million and $1,152 million, respectively.
    Income from continuing operations before income taxes and
    minority interest for the Fleet Management Services segment
    during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002
    and 2001 was $80 million, $48 million,
    $40 million, $53 million and $18 million,
    respectively. Also during 2001, we recognized a $35 million
    cumulative effect of accounting change. Of this amount,
    $27 million related to the adoption of the provisions of
    FASB Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-20,
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to
    Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets 
    and $8 million related to the adoption of the provisions of
    SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities 
    ( SFAS No. 133 ). 

(6)  
     
    Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes,
    includes the after-tax results of discontinued operations. 

(7)  
     
    Dividends declared during the years ended December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2001 were paid to our former parent, Cendant. 

(8)  
     
    The net impact of the restatement discussed in the
     Explanatory Note  and in Note 2,  Prior
    Period Adjustments  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements was a reduction to Stockholders  equity as of
    January 1, 2001 in the amount of $35 million, net of
    income taxes. 

Item 7.  
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with
 Item 1. Business  and our Consolidated Financial
Statements and the notes thereto included in this
Form  10-K.  The
following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the
 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements  and the risks and uncertainties described in
 Item 1A. Risk Factors  set forth above. 

All amounts for periods prior to the year ended
December 31, 2005 and comparisons to such prior period
amounts reflect the balances and amounts on a restated basis.
Accordingly, some of the data set forth in this section is not
comparable to the discussions and data in our previously filed
Annual Reports on
Form  10-K  or
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
periods affected by the restatement. For additional information
on the restatement, see the 

50

Table of Contents   

Explanatory Note  and Note 2,  Prior
Period Adjustments  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K.  Our
review and evaluation of our internal control over financial
reporting concluded that we did not maintain effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005.
For additional information regarding the material weaknesses,
see  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.  

Overview  

We are a leading outsource provider of mortgage and fleet
management services. We conduct our business through three
operating segments, a Mortgage Production segment, a Mortgage
Servicing segment and a Fleet Management Services segment. Our
Mortgage Production segment originates, purchases and sells
mortgage loans through PHH Mortgage and PHH Home Loans. PHH Home
Loans is a mortgage venture that we maintain with Realogy which
began operations in October 2005. Our Mortgage Production
segment generated 21%, 29% and 56% of our Net revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Our Mortgage Servicing segment services mortgage loans that
either PHH Mortgage or PHH Home Loans originates. Our Mortgage
Servicing segment also purchases mortgage servicing rights. Our
Mortgage Servicing segment also acts as a subservicer for
certain clients that own the underlying mortgage servicing
rights. Our Mortgage Servicing segment generated 10% and 5% of
our Net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The high amortization rate during the year
ended December 31, 2003, coupled with the provision for
MSRs impairment, caused our Mortgage Servicing segment to
generate negative Net revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Our Fleet Management Services segment
provides commercial fleet management services to corporate
clients and government agencies throughout the United States and
Canada through PHH Arval. Our Fleet Management Services segment
generated 69%, 66% and 52% of our Net revenues for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

As of December 31, 2004, we were a wholly owned subsidiary
of Cendant that provided homeowners with mortgages, serviced
mortgage loans, facilitated employee relocations and provided
vehicle fleet management and fuel card services to commercial
clients. During 2006, Cendant changed its name to Avis Budget
Group, Inc.; however, within this
Form  10-K,  our
former parent company, now known as Avis Budget Group, Inc.
(NYSE: CAR) is referred to as  Cendant.  On
February 1, 2005, we began operating as an independent,
publicly traded company pursuant to the Spin-Off from Cendant.
See  Item 1. Business  for a discussion of the
Spin-Off.

Prior to the Spin-Off and subsequent to December 31, 2004,
we underwent an internal reorganization whereby we distributed
our former relocation and fuel card businesses to Cendant, and
Cendant contributed its former appraisal business, STARS, to us.
STARS was previously our wholly owned subsidiary until it was
distributed, in the form of a dividend, to a wholly owned
subsidiary of Cendant not within our ownership structure on
December 31, 2002. Cendant then owned STARS through its
subsidiaries outside of our ownership structure from
December 31, 2002 until it contributed STARS to us as part
of the internal reorganization discussed above.

Pursuant to SFAS No. 141, Cendant s contribution
of STARS to us was accounted for as a transfer of net assets
between entities under common control and, therefore, the
financial position and results of operations for STARS are
included in all periods presented. Pursuant to
SFAS No. 144, the financial position and results of
operations of our former relocation and fuel card businesses
have been segregated and reported as discontinued operations for
all periods presented (see Note 25,  Discontinued
Operations  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K  for more
information).

In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into several
agreements and arrangements with Cendant and its real estate
services division that we expect to continue to be material to
our business going forward. For a discussion of these agreements
and arrangements, see  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Cendant  and
   Arrangements with Realogy.  Cendant
completed the spin-off of its real estate services division, (as
defined earlier, the  Realogy Spin-Off ), effective
July 31, 2006.

We, through our subsidiary, PHH Member, and Realogy, through its
subsidiary, Realogy Member, formed the Mortgage Venture. The
Mortgage Venture originates and sells mortgage loans primarily
sourced through Realogy s owned real estate brokerage
business, NRT, its owned relocation business, Cartus, and its
owned settlement services business, TRG. All mortgage loans
originated by the Mortgage Venture are sold to PHH

51

Table of Contents   

Mortgage or unaffiliated third-party investors on a
servicing-released basis. The Mortgage Venture does not hold any
mortgage loans for investment purposes or retain MSRs for any
loans it originates. The Mortgage Venture did not materially
impact our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended
December 31, 2005.

We contributed assets and transferred employees that have
historically supported originations from NRT and Cartus to the
Mortgage Venture in October 2005. The Mortgage Venture is
principally governed by the terms of the operating agreement of
the Mortgage Venture between PHH Member and Realogy Member (as
amended, the  Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement )
and the strategic relationship agreement. See  Item 1.
Business   Arrangements with Realogy  
Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and PHH  and
   Strategic Relationship Agreement  for a
description of the terms of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement and the strategic relationship agreement. The Mortgage
Venture Operating Agreement has a
 50-year  term, subject
to earlier termination, under certain circumstances, including
after the twelfth year, including a two-year notice, or
non-renewal by us after 25 years subject to delivery of
notice. In the event that we do not deliver a non-renewal notice
after the 25th year, the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement will be renewed for an additional
 25-year  term. The
provisions of the strategic relationship agreement govern the
manner in which the Mortgage Venture is recommended by NRT,
Cartus and TRG as the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage
loans to (i) the independent sales associates affiliated
with the Realogy Entities (excluding the Realogy independent
sales associates of any Realogy franchisee acting in such
capacity), (ii) all customers of Realogy Entities
(excluding Realogy franchisees or any employees or independent
sales associate thereof acting in such capacity) and
(iii) the
 U.S.-based  employees of
Cendant. See  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Realogy   Mortgage Venture Between
Realogy and PHH  and    Strategic
Relationship Agreement.  We own 50.1% of the Mortgage
Venture through PHH Member and Realogy owns the remaining 49.9%
through Realogy Member.

The Mortgage Venture is consolidated within our Consolidated
Financial Statements, and Realogy Member s interest in the
Mortgage Venture is reflected in our Consolidated Financial
Statements as a minority interest. (See Note 1,
 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
Basis of Presentation  and Note 3,  Spin-Off from
Cendant  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this
Form  10-K.) 
Subject to certain regulatory and financial covenant
requirements, net income generated by the Mortgage Venture is
distributed quarterly to its members pro rata based upon their
respective ownership interests. The Mortgage Venture may also
require additional capital contributions from us and Realogy
under the terms of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement if
it is required to meet minimum regulatory capital and reserve
requirements imposed by any governmental authority or any
creditor of the Mortgage Venture or its subsidiaries.

Prior to the Spin-Off and in the ordinary course of business, we
were allocated certain expenses from Cendant for corporate
functions including executive management, accounting, tax,
finance, human resources, information technology, legal and
facility-related expenses. Cendant allocated these corporate
expenses to subsidiaries conducting ongoing operations based on
a percentage of the subsidiaries  forecasted revenues. Such
expenses amounted to $3 million, $32 million and
$36 million during the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

Although we had the ability to access the public debt market or
available credit facilities for required funding, prior to the
Spin-Off, Cendant provided intercompany funding to us in order
to lower the total cost of funding for the consolidated entity
through the use of its available cash. During the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, interest expense related
to such intercompany funding was not significant. These
intercompany funding arrangements with Cendant terminated at the
time of the Spin-Off. No intercompany funding amounts were
outstanding at December 31, 2004.

In addition, prior to and as part of the Spin-Off, Cendant made
a cash contribution to us of $100 million and we
distributed assets net of liabilities of $593 million to
Cendant. Such amount included the historical cost of the net
assets of our former relocation and fuel card businesses,
certain other assets and liabilities per the Spin-Off Agreements
and the net amount of forgiveness of certain payables and
receivables, including income taxes, between us, our former
relocation and fuel card businesses and Cendant.

During each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
we paid Cendant $140 million (or $2.66 per share after
giving effect to the 52,684-for-one stock split effective
January 28, 2005) of cash dividends. We did not pay cash
dividends to Cendant during the year ended December 31,
2005.

52

Table of Contents   

Because our business has changed substantially due to the
internal reorganization in connection with the Spin-Off, and we
now conduct our business as an independent, publicly traded
company, our historical financial information does not reflect
what our results of operations, financial position or cash flows
would have been had we been an independent, publicly traded
company during all of the periods presented. Therefore, the
historical financial information for such periods is not
indicative of what our results of operations, financial position
or cash flows will be in the future.

Former Mortgage Services Segment   

During 2005, we changed the composition of our reportable
business segments by separating the business that was formerly
called the Mortgage Services segment into two
segments   the Mortgage Production segment and the
Mortgage Servicing segment. All prior period segment information
has been restated to reflect our three reportable segments.

Mortgage Production Segment  

Our Mortgage Production segment principally provides fee-based
mortgage loan origination services for others (including
brokered mortgage loans) and sells originated mortgage loans
into the secondary market. PHH Mortgage generally sells all
mortgage loans that it originates to investors (which include a
variety of institutional investors) within 60 days of
origination. We originate mortgage loans through three principal
business channels: financial institutions (on a private
label-basis), real estate brokers (including brokers associated
with brokerages owned or franchised by Realogy and independent
brokers) and relocation (mortgage services for Cartus). We also
purchase mortgage loans originated by third parties. Fee income
consists primarily of fees collected on loans originated for
others (including brokered loans) and is recorded as revenue
when we complete our obligations relating to the underlying loan
transactions. Loan origination and commitment fees paid by the
borrower in connection with the origination of mortgage loans
and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred until
loans are sold to investors. Mortgage loans held for sale
( MLHS ) are recorded on our balance sheet at the
lower of cost or market value on an aggregate basis. Sales of
mortgage loans are recorded on the date that ownership is
transferred. Gains or losses on sales of mortgage loans are
recognized based upon the difference between the selling price
and the allocated carrying value of the related mortgage loans
sold.

Upon the closing of a mortgage loan originated or purchased by
us, the mortgage loan is typically warehoused for a period of up
to 60 days and then sold into the secondary market. MLHS
represent mortgage loans originated or purchased by us and held
until sold to investors. We primarily sell our mortgage loans to
government-sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
or Ginnie Mae. Upon sale, we generally retain the MSRs and
servicing obligations of the underlying mortgage loans.

Our Mortgage Production segment also includes the appraisal
services business through STARS. The appraisal services business
is closely linked to the processes by which our Mortgage
Production segment originates mortgage loans. STARS derives
substantially all of its business from our three principal
business channels described above.

Mortgage Servicing Segment  

Our Mortgage Servicing segment services residential mortgage
loans. Upon the sale of the loans originated in or purchased by
the Mortgage Production segment, we generally retain the MSRs
and servicing obligations of those underlying loans. An MSR is
the right to receive a portion of the interest coupon and fees
collected from the mortgagor for performing specified mortgage
servicing activities, which consist of collecting loan payments,
remitting principal and interest payments to investors, holding
escrow funds for payment of mortgage-related expenses such as
taxes and insurance and otherwise administering our mortgage
loan servicing portfolio.

The capitalization of MSRs occurs upon the sale of the
underlying mortgages into the secondary market. Upon the sale of
loans, the total cost of loans originated or acquired is
allocated between the MSR retained and the mortgage loans being
sold without the servicing rights based on their relative fair
values. Net loan servicing income is comprised of several
components, including recurring servicing fees, ancillary income
and the amortization and valuation adjustments of the MSR.
Recurring servicing fees are recognized upon receipt of the

53

Table of Contents   

coupon payment from the borrower and recorded net of agency
guaranty fees. Costs associated with mortgage loan servicing are
charged to expense as incurred. MSRs are amortized over the
estimated life of the related loan portfolio in proportion to
projected net servicing income. Such amortization is included in
Amortization and valuation adjustments related to mortgage
servicing rights, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Loan servicing income is receivable only out of interest
collected from mortgagors, and is recorded as income when
collected. Late charges and other miscellaneous fees collected
from mortgagors are also recorded as income when collected.
Costs associated with loan servicing are charged to expense as
incurred.

MSRs are routinely evaluated for impairment, but at least on a
quarterly basis. For purposes of performing this impairment
evaluation, we stratify our portfolio on the basis of product
type and interest rates of the underlying mortgage loans. We
measure impairment for each stratum by comparing its estimated
fair value to the carrying amount. Fair value is estimated based
upon estimates of expected future cash flows considering
prepayment estimates (developed using a model described below),
our historical prepayment rates, portfolio characteristics,
interest rates based on interest rate yield curves, implied
volatility and other economic factors. The model to forecast
prepayment rates used in the development of expected future cash
flows is based on historical observations of prepayment behavior
in similar periods, comparing current mortgage interest rates to
the mortgage interest rates in our servicing portfolio, and
incorporates loan characteristics (e.g., loan type and note
rate) and factors such as recent prepayment experience, previous
refinance opportunities and estimated levels of home equity.
Temporary impairment is recorded through a valuation allowance
in the period of occurrence and is included in Amortization and
valuation adjustments related to mortgage servicing rights, net
in our Consolidated Statements of Income. We periodically
evaluate our MSRs to determine if the carrying value before the
application of the valuation allowance is recoverable. When we
determine that a portion of the asset is not recoverable, the
asset and the previously designated valuation are reduced to
reflect the write-down.

Our Mortgage Servicing segment also includes our reinsurance
business, which we conduct through our wholly owned subsidiary,
Atrium, a New York domiciled monoline mortgage guaranty
insurance corporation. Atrium receives premiums from certain
third-party insurance companies and provides reinsurance solely
in respect of primary mortgage insurance issued by those
third-party insurance companies on loans originated through our
various loan origination channels.

Arrangements with Cendant and Realogy  

Prior to the Spin-Off, we entered into various agreements with
Cendant in connection with the Spin-Off to provide for our
separation from Cendant and the transition of our business as an
independent company, including (i) a separation agreement,
(ii) a tax sharing agreement, and (iii) a transition
services agreement. (See  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Cendant  for more information about these
agreements and  Item 1A. Risk Factors  
Risks Related to the Spin-Off   Certain arrangements
and agreements that we have entered into with Cendant in
connection with the Spin-Off could impact our tax and other
assets and liabilities in the future, and our financial
statements are subject to future adjustments as a result of our
obligations under those arrangements and agreements.   
  for a discussion of some of the risks associated with
these agreements.)

Also in connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into a tax
sharing agreement with Cendant that contains provisions
governing the allocation of liability for taxes between Cendant
and us, indemnification for certain tax liabilities and
responsibility for preparing and filing tax returns and
defending tax contests, as well as other tax-related matters.
See  Item 1. Business   Arrangements with
Cendant   Tax Sharing Agreement. 

Pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, our income tax assets and
liabilities may be affected by audits of Cendant s prior
tax years. In addition, adjustments to income tax assets and
liabilities may be needed when we receive, from Cendant, the
reconciliation of Cendant s filed income tax returns for
the year ended December 31, 2005 to the income tax asset
and liability estimates. See Note 18,  Commitments and
Contingencies  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K.  As
such, our financial statements are subject to future adjustments
which may not be fully resolved until we receive, from Cendant,
a reconciliation of the filed tax returns for the year ended
December 31, 2005 (filed in September 2006), to our income
tax assets and liabilities and when audits of Cendant s
prior years  returns are completed. See  Item 1A.
Risk Factors   Risks Related to the
Spin-Off   Certain arrangements and agreements that we
have entered into with Cendant in

54

Table of Contents   

connection with the Spin-Off could impact our tax and other
assets and liabilities in the future, and our financial
statements are subject to future adjustments as a result of our
obligations under those arrangements and agreements. 

We also entered into several agreements with Cendant s real
estate services division prior to the Spin-Off to provide for
the continuation of certain business arrangements, including
(i) the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, (ii) a
strategic relationship agreement, (iii) a marketing
agreement, (iv) a trademark license agreement with PHH
Mortgage and (v) a trademark license agreement with the
Mortgage Venture. (See  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Realogy  for a description of these
agreements.) In connection with the Spin-Off, we, through the
PHH Member, and Cendant s real estate services division,
through the Realogy Member, formed the Mortgage Venture, the
purpose of which is to originate and sell mortgage loans
primarily sourced through NRT, Cartus and TRG. (See
 Item 1. Business   Arrangements with
Realogy   Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and
PHH  for a discussion of the Mortgage Venture.) The
termination of rights under our agreements with Realogy,
including the termination of the Mortgage Venture or of our
exclusivity rights under the strategic relationship agreement or
marketing agreements, could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. See
 Item 1. Business   Arrangements with
Realogy  and  Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Regulatory Trends  

The regulatory environments in which we operate have an impact
on the activities in which we may engage, how the activities may
be carried out and the profitability of those activities. (See
 Item 1A. Risk Factors   Risks Related to
our Business   The businesses in which we engage are
complex and heavily regulated, and changes in the regulatory
environment affecting our businesses could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations
or cash flows. ) Our Mortgage Production and Mortgage
Servicing segments are subject to numerous federal, state and
local laws and regulations, including those relating to real
estate settlement procedures, fair lending, fair credit
reporting, truth in lending, federal and state disclosure and
licensing. Changes to laws, regulations or regulatory policies
can affect our operations. As discussed in  Item 1.
Business   Our Business   Mortgage Servicing
Segment   Mortgage Regulation,  RESPA and state
real estate brokerage laws restrict the payment of fees or other
consideration for the referral of real estate settlement
services. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requires us to
disclose certain information about the mortgage loans we
originate and purchase, such as race and gender of our
customers, the disposition of mortgage applications, income
levels and interest rate (i.e. annual percentage rate)
information. We believe that publication of such information may
lead to heightened scrutiny of all mortgage lenders  loan
pricing and underwriting practices. The establishment of the
Mortgage Venture with Realogy formed for the purpose of
originating and selling mortgage loans primarily sourced through
Realogy s owned residential real estate brokerage and
corporate relocation businesses, and the continuing relationship
between and among the Mortgage Venture, Realogy and us are
subject to the anti-kickback requirements of RESPA. There can be
no assurance that more restrictive laws, rules and regulations
will not be adopted in the future or that existing laws, rules
and regulations will be applied in a manner that may adversely
impact our business or make regulatory compliance more difficult
or expensive.

Our wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Atrium Insurance
Corporation, a New York domiciled monoline mortgage guaranty
insurance company, is subject to insurance regulations in the
State of New York relating to, among other things, standards of
solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of
insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on
investments; premium rates; restrictions on the size of risks
that may be insured under a single policy; reserves and
provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations;
deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders;
approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct,
including the use of credit information in underwriting; as well
as other underwriting and claims practices. The New York State
Insurance Department also conducts periodic examinations and
requires the filing of annual and other reports relating to the
financial condition of companies and other matters.

As a result of our ownership of Atrium, we are subject to New
York s insurance holding company statute, as well as
certain other laws, which, among other things, limit
Atrium s ability to declare and pay dividends except from
restricted cash in excess of the aggregate of Atrium s
paid-in capital, paid-in surplus and contingency reserve.
Additionally, anyone seeking to acquire, directly or indirectly,
10% or more of Atrium s outstanding

55

Table of Contents   

common stock, or otherwise proposing to engage in a transaction
involving a change in control of Atrium, will be required to
obtain the prior approval of the New York Superintendent of
Insurance.

Mortgage Origination Trends  

The aggregate demand for mortgage loans in the U.S. is a
primary driver of our operating results. The demand for mortgage
loans is affected by external factors including prevailing
mortgage rates and the strength of the U.S. housing market.
According to Fannie Mae s  Economic and Mortgage Market
Developments , the year ended December 31, 2005
represented historically high industry originations of
approximately $3.0 trillion. As of October 2006,  Economic and
Mortgage Market Developments  forecasted a decline in
industry originations during 2006 of approximately 18% from 2005
levels. Also according to  Economic and Mortgage Market
Developments , purchase originations during 2006 are expected
to decline by approximately 4% from 2005 levels. We expect lower
origination volume, ongoing pricing pressures and a flat yield
curve to negatively impact the results of operations of our
Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments for 2006 and
2007. We expect to continue to seek to reduce costs in these
segments to better align our resources and expenses with
anticipated business levels. We believe the mortgage industry
will become increasingly competitive in 2007 as industry margins
and volumes contract due to higher interest rates and other
competitive factors. We intend to take advantage of this
environment by leveraging our existing mortgage origination
services platform to enter into new outsourcing relationships as
more companies determine that it is no longer economically
feasible to compete in the industry, but there can be no
assurance that we will be successful in this effort.

Seasonality  

Our Mortgage Production segment is generally subject to seasonal
trends. These seasonal trends reflect the pattern in the
national housing market. Home sales typically rise during the
spring and summer seasons and decline during the fall and winter
seasons. Seasonality has less of an effect on mortgage
refinancing activity, which is primarily driven by prevailing
mortgage rates. Our Mortgage Servicing segment is not generally
subject to seasonal trends; however, delinquency rates typically
rise temporarily during the winter months, driven by mortgagor
payment patterns.

Inflation  

An increase in inflation could have a significant impact on our
Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments. Interest
rates normally increase during periods of rising inflation.
Historically, as interest rates increase, mortgage loan
production decreases, particularly production from loan
refinancing. An environment of gradual interest rate increases
may, however, signify an improving economy or increasing real
estate values, which in turn may stimulate increased home buying
activity. Generally, in periods of reduced mortgage loan
production the associated profit margins also decline due to
increased competition among mortgage loan originators and higher
unit costs, thus further reducing our mortgage production
revenues. Conversely in a rising interest rate environment, our
mortgage loan servicing revenues generally increase because
mortgage prepayment rates tend to decrease, extending the
average life of our servicing portfolio and reducing the
amortization and impairment of our MSRs. See discussion below
under    Market, Credit and Counterparty
Risk  and  Item 1A. Risk Factors  
Risks Related to our Business   Our business is
affected by fluctuations in interest rates, and if we fail to
manage our exposure to changes in interest rates effectively,
our business, financial position, results of operations or cash
flows could be adversely affected. 

Fleet Management Services Segment   

We provide fleet management services to corporate clients and
government agencies. These services include management and
leasing of vehicles and other fee-based services for
clients  vehicle fleets. We lease vehicles primarily to
corporate fleet users under open-end operating and direct
financing lease arrangements where the customer bears
substantially all of the vehicle s residual value risk. In
limited circumstances, we lease vehicles under closed-end leases
where we bear all of the vehicle s residual value risk. The
lease term under the open-end lease agreements provide for a
minimum lease term of twelve months and after the minimum term,
the leases may be continued at the lessees  election for
successive monthly renewals. For operating leases, lease
revenues,

56

Table of Contents   

which contain a depreciation component, an interest component
and a management fee component, are recognized over the lease
term of the vehicle, which encompasses the minimum lease term
and the  month-to -month
renewals. For direct financing leases, lease revenues contain an
interest component and a management fee component. The interest
component is recognized using the effective interest method over
the lease term of the vehicle, which encompasses the minimum
lease term and the
 month-to -month
renewals. Amounts charged to the lessees for interest are
determined in accordance with the pricing supplement to the
respective lease agreement and are generally calculated on a
floating-rate basis that varies
 month-to -month in
accordance with changes in the floating-rate index. Amounts
charged to lessees for interest may also be based on a fixed
rate that would remain constant for the life of the lease.
Amounts charged to the lessees for depreciation are typically
based on the straight-line depreciation of the vehicle over its
expected lease term. Management fees are recognized on a
straight-line basis over the life of the lease. Revenue for
other services is recognized when such services are provided to
the lessee.

We sell certain of our truck and equipment leases to third-party
banks and individual financial institutions. When we sell
operating leases, we sell the underlying assets and assign any
rights to the leases, including future leasing revenues, to the
banks or financial institutions. Upon the transfer of the title
and the assignment of the rights associated with the operating
leases, we record the proceeds from the sale as revenue and
recognize an expense for the undepreciated cost of the assets
sold. Under certain of these sales agreements, we retain some
residual risk in connection with the fair value of the asset at
lease termination.

Fleet Market Trends  

The market size for the U.S. commercial fleet management
services market has displayed little or no growth over the last
several years as reported by the  Automotive Fleet 2005, 2004
and 2003 Fact Books.  Growth in our Fleet Management Services
segment will therefore be driven principally by increased
fee-based services, increased market share in the large fleet
market (greater than 500 units) and increased service
provided to the national fleet market (75 to 500 units).

Vicarious Liability  

Our Fleet Management Services segment could be liable for
damages in connection with motor vehicle accidents under the
theory of vicarious liability in certain jurisdictions in which
we do business. Under this theory, companies that lease motor
vehicles may be subject to liability for the tortious acts of
their lessees, even in situations where the leasing company has
not been negligent. Our Fleet Management Services segment is
subject to unlimited liability as the owner of leased vehicles
in two major provinces in Canada and is subject to limited
liability (e.g., in the event of a lessee s failure to meet
certain insurance or financial responsibility requirements) in
the Province of Ontario and as many as fifteen jurisdictions in
the United States. Although our lease contracts require that
each lessee indemnifies us against such liabilities, in the
event that a lessee lacks adequate insurance coverage or
financial resources to satisfy these indemnity provisions we
could be liable for property damage or injuries caused by the
vehicles that we lease.

On August 10, 2005, a new federal law was enacted in the
United States which preempted those state vicarious liability
laws that imposed unlimited liability on a vehicle lessor. This
law, however, does not preempt existing state laws that impose
limited liability on a vehicle lessor in the event that certain
insurance or financial responsibility requirements for the
leased vehicles are not met. Prior to the enactment of this law,
our Fleet Management Services segment was subject to unlimited
liability in the states of New York and Maine and the District
of Columbia. It is unclear at this time whether any of these
three jurisdictions will enact legislation imposing limited or
an alternative form of liability on vehicle lessors. In
addition, the scope, application and enforceability of the new
federal law have not been fully tested. For example, a state
trial court in New York has ruled that the law is
unconstitutional. The ultimate disposition of this New York case
and its impact on the new federal law are uncertain at this time.

Additionally, a new law was recently enacted in the Province of
Ontario setting a cap of $1,000,000 on a lessor s liability
for personal injuries for accidents occurring on or after
March 1, 2006. The scope, application and enforceability of
this new provincial law also have not been fully tested.

57

Table of Contents   

Seasonality  

The results of operations of our Fleet Management Services
segment are generally not seasonal.

Inflation  

Inflation does not have a significant impact on our Fleet
Management Services segment.

Market, Credit and Counterparty Risk   

We are exposed to market, credit and counterparty risks. See
 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market
Risk   
 Interest Rate Risk  and  Item 1A. Risk
Factors   
 Risks Related to our
Business   
 Our business is affected by fluctuations in interest
rates, and if we fail to manage our exposure to changes in
interest rates effectively, our business, financial position,
results of operations or cash flows could be adversely
affected.  and    Our hedging strategies may
not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with
changes in interest rates. 

Market Risk  

Our principal market exposure is to interest rate risk. We have
particular exposure to long-term U.S. Treasury
( Treasury ) and mortgage interest rates, due to their
impact on mortgage-related assets and commitments. We also have
exposure to the London Interbank Offered Rate
( LIBOR ) and commercial paper interest rates due to
their impact on variable-rate borrowings, other interest rate
sensitive liabilities and net investment in floating-rate lease
assets. We manage our interest rate risk through various
economic hedging strategies and derivative instruments,
including interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to
purchase these items, futures and forward contracts.

Credit Risk  

While the majority of the mortgage loans serviced by us are sold
without recourse, we are exposed to consumer credit risk related
to loans sold with recourse. The majority of the loans sold with
recourse represent sales under a program where we retain the
credit risk for a limited period of time and only for a specific
default event. The retained credit risk represents the unpaid
principal balance of mortgage loans. For these loans, we record
an allowance for estimated losses, which is determined based
upon our history of actual loss experience under the program.
This allowance and the related activity are not significant to
our results of operations or financial position. We are also
exposed to credit risk for our clients under the lease and
service agreements they have with PHH Arval.

Counterparty Risk  

We are exposed to counterparty risk in the event of
non-performance by counterparties to various agreements and
sales transactions. We manage such risk by evaluating the
financial position and creditworthiness of potential
counterparties and/or requiring collateral in instances in which
financing is provided. We generally mitigate counterparty risk
associated with our derivative contracts by periodically
monitoring the amount for which we are at risk with respect to
such contracts, requiring collateral posting above established
credit limits, periodically evaluating counterparty
creditworthiness and financial position, and where possible,
dispersing the risk among multiple counterparties.

58

Table of Contents   

Results of
Operations   2005 vs. 2004  

Consolidated Results   

Our consolidated results of continuing operations for 2005 and
2004 were comprised of the following:

During 2005, our Net revenues increased by $74 million (3%)
compared to 2004, due to $133 million and $117 million
increases in Net revenues for our Fleet Management Services and
Mortgage Servicing segments, respectively, partially offset by a
$176 million decrease in Net revenues for our Mortgage
Production segment. Our Income from continuing operations before
income taxes and minority interest during 2005 included
$41 million of Spin-Off related expenses, which were
excluded from the results of our reportable segments. These
Spin-Off related expenses, a $127 million decrease in
Income from continuing operations before income taxes and
minority interest for the Mortgage Production segment and a
$5 million increase in other expenses not allocated to our
reportable segments were partially offset by increases of
$128 million and $32 million of Income from continuing
operations before income taxes and minority interest for the
Mortgage Servicing and Fleet Management Services segments,
respectively.

Our effective income tax rates were 54.7% and 45.3% during 2005
and 2004, respectively. The increase in the effective rate in
2005 from 2004 was primarily due to increases in a contingency
reserve of $15 million and state income taxes of
$9 million due to an increase in weighted-average state
income tax rates that were partially offset by changes in
valuation allowances in 2005. The increase in weighted-average
state income tax rates was due in part to PHH Mortgage s
classification for state income tax purposes as a financial
institution in certain states that were recorded in 2005 that
were partially offset by changes in valuation allowances in 2005.

We devoted substantial internal and external resources to the
completion of our 2005 Consolidated Financial Statements and
related matters. As a result of these efforts, along with
efforts to complete our assessment of internal controls over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, as required by
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we incurred
incremental fees and expenses for additional auditor services,
financial and other consulting services, legal services and
liquidity waivers of approximately $35 million to
$40 million through October 31, 2006, of which
$12 million was recorded in 2005. While we do not expect
fees and expenses relating to the preparation of our financial
results for future periods to remain at this level, we expect
that these fees and expenses will remain significantly higher
than historical fees and expenses for the remainder of 2006 and
into 2007.

Segment Results   

Discussed below are the results of operations for each of our
reportable segments. Certain income and expenses not allocated
to our reportable segments are reported under the heading Other.
Due to the commencement of operations of the Mortgage Venture in
the fourth quarter of 2005, our management began evaluating the
operating results of each of our reportable segments based upon
Net revenues and segment profit or loss, which is

59

Table of Contents   

presented as the income or loss from continuing operations
before income tax provisions and after Minority interest. The
Mortgage Production segment profit or loss excludes
Realogy s minority interest in the profits and losses of
the Mortgage Venture. Prior to the commencement of the Mortgage
Venture operations, PHH Mortgage was party to marketing
agreements with NRT and Cendant Mobility (now Cartus), wherein
PHH Mortgage paid fees for services provided. These marketing
agreements terminated when the Mortgage Venture commenced
operations. The provisions of the strategic relationship
agreement and the marketing agreement thereafter began to govern
the manner in which the Mortgage Venture and PHH Mortgage,
respectively, are recommended by Realogy. (See
 Item 1.
Business   
 Arrangements with
Realogy   
 Strategic Relationship Agreement  and
   Marketing Agreements  for a discussion of
the terms on which the Mortgage Venture and PHH Mortgage are
recommended by Realogy.)

(1)  
     
    The following is a reconciliation of Income from continuing
    operations before income taxes and minority interest to segment
    profit: 

(2)  
     
    Expenses reported under the heading Other for 2005 were
    primarily $41 million of Spin-Off related expenses. 

Mortgage Production Segment  

Net revenues decreased by $176 million (25%) in 2005
compared to 2004. As discussed in greater detail below, Net
revenues were impacted by decreases of $105 million in Gain
on sale of mortgage loans, net, $41 million in Mortgage
fees, $23 million in Mortgage net finance income and
$7 million in Other income.

Segment profit decreased by $126 million in 2005 compared
to 2004 driven by the $176 million decrease in Net
revenues, which was partially offset by a $49 million
decrease in Total expenses. The $49 million reduction in
Total expenses was primarily due to decreases in Other operating
expenses of $25 million and Salaries and related expenses
of $16 million.

60

Table of Contents   

The following tables present a summary of our financial results
and key related drivers for the Mortgage Production segment, and
are followed by a discussion of each of the key components of
Net revenues and Total expenses:

(1)  
     
    n/m   Not meaningful. 

61

Table of Contents   

Mortgage Fees   

Mortgage fees consist primarily of fees collected on loans
originated for others (including brokered loans and loans
originated through our financial institutions channel), fees on
cancelled loans, and appraisal and other income generated by our
appraisal services business. Mortgage fees collected on loans
originated through our financial institutions channel are
recorded in Mortgage fees when the financial institution retains
the underlying loan. Loans purchased from financial institutions
are included in loans closed to be sold while loans retained by
financial institutions are included in fee-based closings.

Fee income on loans closed to be sold is deferred until the
loans are sold and recognized in Gain on sale of mortgage loans,
net in accordance with SFAS No. 91,  Accounting
for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or
Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases 
( SFAS No. 91 ). Fee income on fee-based
closings is recorded in Mortgage fees and is recognized at the
time of closing.

Loans closed to be sold and fee-based closings are the key
drivers of Mortgage fees. Fees generated by our appraisal
services business are recorded when the services are performed,
regardless of whether the loan closes and are associated with
both loans closed to be sold and fee-based closings.

Mortgage fees decreased by $41 million (18%) from 2004 to
2005. This decrease was primarily attributable to the decline in
fee-based closings of 34%, partially offset by a 5% increase in
loans closed to be sold. The change in mix between fee-based
closings and loans closed to be sold was primarily due to the
flat yield curve, which caused our financial institution clients
to retain fewer loans in their portfolio in 2005 compared to
2004. Of the $4.4 billion decline in total closings,
$1.8 billion was attributable to a decline in refinancing
activity from 2004 to 2005. Refinancing activity is sensitive to
interest rate changes relative to borrowers  current
interest rates, and typically increases when interest rates fall
and decreases when interest rates rise. Purchase closings
decreased by $2.6 billion over the same period. Total
originations in 2005 compared to 2004 were adversely affected by
the loss of the Fleet Bank relationship resulting from Bank of
America s acquisition of Fleet Bank and a decline in volume
from USAA, which insourced its mortgage originations during 2004.

Gain on Sale of Mortgage Loans, Net   

Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net consists of the following:

Gain on loans sold, including the changes in the fair value of
    all loan-related derivatives including our interest rate lock
    commitments ( IRLCs ), freestanding loan-related
    derivatives and loan derivatives designated in a hedge
    relationship. See Note 11,  Derivatives and Risk
    Management Activities  in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  To the
    extent the derivatives are considered effective hedges under
    SFAS No. 133, changes in the fair value of the
    mortgage loans would be recorded; 

The initial value of capitalized servicing, which represents a
    non-cash increase to our MSRs. Subsequent changes in the fair
    value of MSRs are recorded in Net loan servicing income; and 

Recognition of net loan origination fees and expenses previously
    deferred under SFAS No. 91. 

The components of Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net were as
follows:

62

Table of Contents   

Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net decreased by
$105 million (26%) in 2005 compared to 2004. Lower initial
capitalization rates of our MSRs caused $58 million of this
decline, as our initial capitalization rate related to mortgage
loans sold declined by approximately 18 basis points
( bps ) in 2005 compared to 2004. This decrease in the
initial capitalization rate was partially offset by a
$3.1 billion increase in loans sold, which increased the
initial value of capitalized servicing by $36 million.
Gains on loans sold net of the recognition of deferred fees and
costs (the effects of SFAS No. 91) declined by
$82 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Of this
$82 million decline, $76 million is due to a decline
in margins on loans sold during 2005. Typically, when industry
loan volumes decline due to a rising interest rate environment
or other factors, competitive pricing pressures occur as
mortgage companies compete for fewer customers, which results in
lower margins. The remaining $6 million of the decline was
the result of economic hedge ineffectiveness resulting from our
risk management activities related to IRLCs and mortgage loans,
which yielded losses of approximately $29 million in 2004
and losses of approximately $35 million in 2005.

Mortgage Net Finance Income   

Mortgage net finance income allocable to the Mortgage Production
segment consists of interest income on MLHS and interest expense
allocated on debt used to fund MLHS and is driven by the average
volume of loans held for sale, the average volume of outstanding
borrowings, the note rate on loans held for sale and the cost of
funds rate of our outstanding borrowings. Mortgage net finance
income allocable to the Mortgage Production segment declined by
$23 million (39%) in 2005 compared to 2004, largely because
of the flattening of the yield curve in 2005 compared to 2004.
Of this decline, approximately $47 million related to
increased Mortgage interest expense, $59 million of which
was attributable to a higher cost of funds from our outstanding
borrowings, partially offset by a $12 million decrease in
Mortgage interest expense due to lower average borrowings. A
significant portion of our loan originations are funded with
variable-rate short-term debt. At December 31, 2005 and
2004, one-month LIBOR, which is used as a benchmark for
short-term rates, was 4.48% and 2.40%, respectively, which was
an increase of 208 bps. The increase in Mortgage interest
expense was partially offset by a $24 million increase in
Mortgage interest income primarily due to higher note rates
associated with loans held for sale. These increases were
partially offset by lower average loans held for sale.

Other Income   

Other income allocable to the Mortgage Production segment
decreased by $7 million (70%) in 2005 compared to 2004.
This decrease was primarily attributable to the receipt of a
one-time payment during 2004 associated with the termination of
the Fleet Bank relationship resulting from Bank of
America s acquisition of Fleet Bank.

Salaries and Related Expenses   

Salaries and related expenses allocable to the Mortgage
Production segment are reflected net of loan origination costs
deferred under SFAS No. 91 and consist of commissions
paid to employees involved in the loan origination process, as
well as compensation, payroll taxes and benefits paid to
employees in our mortgage production operations and allocations
for overhead. Salaries and related expenses decreased by
$16 million (6%) in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to
a decrease in average staffing levels due to lower origination
volumes that was partially offset by higher average salaries and
a $9 million increase in incentive bonus expense recorded
during 2005 that was not incurred in 2004.

Other Operating Expenses   

Other operating expenses allocable to the Mortgage Production
segment are reflected net of loan origination costs deferred
under SFAS No. 91 and consist of production-direct
expenses, appraisal expense and allocations for overhead. Other
operating expenses decreased by $25 million (11%) during
2005 compared to 2004. This decrease was primarily attributable
to an 8% decrease in loans closed during 2005 compared to those
closed during 2004.

63

Table of Contents   

Mortgage Servicing Segment  

Net revenues increased by $117 million (98%) in 2005
compared to 2004. As discussed in greater detail below,
favorable changes in Amortization and valuation adjustments
related to MSRs, net of $83 million and an increase in
Mortgage net finance income of $46 million were partially
offset by decreases in Other income of $6 million and Loan
servicing income of $6 million.

Segment profit increased by $128 million in 2005 compared
to 2004 driven by the $117 million increase in Net revenues
and an $11 million decrease in Total expenses. The
$11 million reduction in Total expenses was primarily due
to a $6 million decrease in Other operating expenses and a
decrease in Salaries and related expenses of $2 million.

The following tables present a summary of our financial results
and key related drivers for the Mortgage Servicing segment, and
are followed by a discussion of each of the key components of
Net revenues and Total expenses:

(1)  
     
    n/m   Not meaningful. 

Mortgage Net Finance Income   

Mortgage net finance income allocable to the Mortgage Servicing
segment consists of interest income credits from escrow
balances, interest income from investment balances (including
investments held by our

64

Table of Contents   

reinsurance subsidiary) and interest expense allocated on debt
used to fund our MSRs, and is driven by the average volume of
outstanding borrowings and the cost of funds rate of our
outstanding borrowings. Mortgage net finance income increased by
$46 million (418%) in 2005 compared to 2004, primarily due
to higher income from escrow balances, partially offset by
higher interest expense on debt allocated to the funding of
MSRs. These increases were primarily due to higher short-term
interest rates in 2005 compared to 2004 since the escrow
balances earn income based upon one-month LIBOR.

Loan Servicing Income   

Loan servicing income includes recurring servicing fees, other
ancillary fees and net reinsurance income from our wholly owned
reinsurance subsidiary, Atrium. Recurring servicing fees are
recognized upon receipt of the coupon payment from the borrower
and recorded net of guaranty fees. Net reinsurance income
represents premiums earned on reinsurance contracts, net of
ceding commission and adjustments to the allowance for
reinsurance losses. The primary driver for servicing income is
average loan servicing portfolio.

The components of Loan servicing income were as follows:

Loan servicing income decreased by $6 million (1%) from
2004 to 2005. This decrease primarily related to higher
curtailment interest paid to investors during 2005 due to an
increase in loan payoffs during 2005, as well as a decrease in
net reinsurance income during 2005 compared to 2004. These
decreases were partially offset by higher servicing fees due to
the higher average servicing portfolio during 2005.

Amortization and Valuation Adjustments Related to MSRs,
    Net   

Amortization and valuation adjustments related to MSRs, net
includes Amortization of MSRs, Recovery of (provision for)
impairment of MSRs and Net derivative (loss) gain related to
MSRs. The favorable change of $83 million (22%) from 2004
to 2005 was attributable to a $430 million favorable change
in the valuation of our MSRs, partially offset by a
$199 million unfavorable change in net derivative gains and
losses and $148 million of higher MSRs amortization. The
components of Amortization and valuation adjustments related to
MSRs, net are discussed separately below.

Amortization of MSRs:  We amortize our MSRs based on the
ratio of current month net servicing income (estimated at the
beginning of the month) to the expected net servicing income
over the life of the servicing portfolio. The amortization rate
is applied to the gross book value of the MSRs to determine
amortization expense. The application of the amortization rate
to the gross book value resulted in higher amortization expense
being offset by a recovery of the MSRs valuation by
approximately $94 million. Amortization of our MSRs
increased by $148 million (52%) during 2005 compared to
2004. The increase in amortization expense was primarily
attributable to a higher amortization rate due to a decline in
the beginning weighted-average life of the portfolio resulting
from a flattening of the yield curve in 2005 compared to 2004.

Recovery of (Provision for) Impairment of MSRs:  The fair
value of our MSRs is estimated based upon estimates of expected
future cash flows from our MSRs considering prepayment
estimates, portfolio characteristics, interest rates based on
interest rate yield curves, implied volatility and other
economic factors. Generally, the value of our MSRs is expected
to increase when interest rates rise and decrease when interest
rates decline due to

65

Table of Contents   

the effect those changes in interest rates have on prepayment
estimates. Other factors noted above as well as the overall
market demand for MSRs may also affect the MSRs valuation. The
MSRs valuation is validated quarterly by comparison to a
third-party market valuation of our portfolio.

During 2005, the Recovery of impairment of MSRs valuation was
$216 million, a favorable change of $430 million
(201%) from 2004. This favorable change was primarily due to the
increase in mortgage interest rates during 2005 leading to lower
expected prepayments. The
 10-year  Treasury rate,
which is widely regarded as a benchmark for mortgage rates,
increased by 18 bps during 2005. Conversely, the
 10-year  Treasury rate
decreased by 4 bps in 2004. Additionally, the spread
between mortgage coupon rates and the underlying risk-free
interest rate increased during 2005. The increase in mortgage
spreads also had a favorable impact on the Recovery of
impairment of MSRs.

Net Derivative (Loss) Gain Related to MSRs:  We use a
combination of derivatives to protect against potential adverse
changes in the value of our MSRs resulting from a decline in
interest rates. See Note 11,  Derivatives and Risk
Management Activities  in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K.  The
amount and composition of derivatives used will depend on the
exposure to loss of value on our MSRs, the expected cost of the
derivatives and the increased earnings generated by origination
of new loans resulting from the decline in interest rates (the
natural business hedge). The natural business hedge provides a
benefit when increased borrower refinancing activity results in
higher production volumes which would partially offset losses in
the valuation of our MSRs thereby reducing the need to use
derivatives. The benefit of the natural business hedge depends
on the decline in interest rates required to create an incentive
for borrowers to refinance their mortgages and lower their rates.

During 2005, the value of derivatives related to our MSRs
decreased by $82 million. In 2004, the value of derivatives
related to our MSRs increased by $117 million. Our net
results from MSRs risk management activities for 2005 was a gain
of $40 million as described below. Refer to
 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk  for an analysis of the impact of
25 bps, 50 bps and 100 bps changes in interest
rates on the valuation of our MSRs and related derivatives at
December 31, 2005.

The following table outlines Net gain (loss) on MSRs risk
management activities:

Other Income   

Other income allocable to the Mortgage Servicing segment
consists primarily of net gains or losses on investment
securities and decreased by $6 million in 2005 compared to
2004. This decrease was primarily attributable to gains on the
sale of investment securities that occurred in 2004, whereas no
marketable securities were sold in 2005.

Salaries and Related Expenses   

Salaries and related expenses allocable to the Mortgage
Servicing segment consist of compensation, payroll taxes and
benefits paid to employees in our mortgage loan servicing
operations and allocations for overhead. Salaries and related
expenses decreased by $2 million (6%) in 2005 compared to
2004. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in average
staffing levels despite the 3% increase in the average loan
servicing portfolio. This decrease was partially offset by a
$2 million increase in incentive bonus expense recorded
during 2005 that was not incurred in 2004, as well as higher
average salaries.

66

Table of Contents   

Other Operating Expenses   

Other operating expenses allocable to the Mortgage Servicing
segment include servicing-direct expenses, costs associated with
foreclosure and real estate owned ( REO ) and
allocations for overhead. Other operating expenses decreased by
$6 million (12%) during 2005 compared to 2004. This
decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in foreclosure
costs primarily related to improvements in the performance of
our loans sold with recourse.

Fleet Management Services Segment  

On February 27, 2004, we acquired First Fleet. Accordingly,
our results for 2005 included a full year of First Fleet
activity compared to ten months of activity included in 2004.
The impact of the additional two months of First Fleet profit in
2005 was not material to the results of operations for our Fleet
Management Services segment.

Net revenues increased by $133 million (8%) in 2005
compared to 2004. As discussed in greater detail below, the
increase in Net revenues was primarily due to increases of
$111 million in Fleet lease income and $15 million in
Fleet management fees.

Segment profit increased by $32 million (67%) in 2005
compared to 2004 due to the $133 million increase in Net
revenues, partially offset by a $101 million increase in
Total expenses.

The following tables present a summary of our financial results
and related drivers for the Fleet Management Services segment,
and are followed by a discussion of each of the key components
of our Net revenues and Total expenses:

67

Table of Contents   

Fleet Management Fees   

Fleet management fees consist primarily of the revenues of our
principal fee-based products: fuel cards, maintenance services,
accident management services and monthly management fees for
leased vehicles. Fleet management fees increased by
$15 million (11%) in 2005 compared to 2004, due to
increases in all four major revenue drivers, which accounted for
$12 million of the increase. Individual fees increased in
line with our unit count growth. Total growth was enhanced as
the result of higher revenues due to higher average transactions
for both maintenance service cards and fuel cards and higher
subrogation recovery for our clients.

Fleet Lease Income   

Fleet lease income increased by $111 million (8%) during
2005 compared to 2004 due to higher total lease billings
resulting from the 3% increase in leased vehicles. Increased
depreciation billed as a result of increased leased unit counts
and increased Fleet interest expense on our variable-interest
rate funded leases added to Fleet lease income.

Other Income   

Other income consists principally of the revenue generated by
our dealerships and other miscellaneous revenues. Other income
increased by $7 million (8%) during 2005 compared to 2004,
primarily due to a $5 million increase in interest income
and a $2 million increase in net truck remarketing revenue.

Salaries and Related Expenses   

Salaries and related expenses increased by $10 million
(13%) compared to 2004, primarily due to increased wages and
increased staffing levels.

Depreciation on Operating Leases   

Depreciation on operating leases is the depreciation expense
associated with our leased asset portfolio. Depreciation on
operating leases during 2005 increased by $56 million (5%)
compared to 2004, primarily due to the 3% increase in leased
units and higher average depreciation expense on replaced
vehicles in the existing vehicle portfolio. These increases were
partially offset by an increase in motor company monies retained
by the business and recognized during 2005, which are accounted
for as adjustments to the basis of the leased units and increase
as volumes increase.

Fleet Interest Expense   

Fleet interest expense increased by $34 million (32%)
during 2005 compared to 2004. The increase in Fleet interest
expense was primarily due to rising short-term interest rates.
Debt is utilized to fund the domestic fleet leases, of which
approximately 77% are floating-rate leases, whereby the interest
component of the lease billing changes with the movement of
certain floating-rate indices. The increase in Fleet interest
expense resulting from the higher interest rates was partially
offset by a $28 million decrease due to lower debt levels
resulting from certain capital structure adjustments made in
connection with the Spin-Off.

68

Table of Contents   

Results of
Operations   2004 vs. 2003  

Consolidated Results   

Our consolidated results of continuing operations for 2004 and
2003 were comprised of the following:

During 2004, our Net revenues decreased by $239 million
(9%) compared to 2003, due to a $778 million decrease in
Net revenues for our Mortgage Production segment that was
partially offset by $330 million and $209 million
increases in Net revenues for our Mortgage Servicing and Fleet
Management Services segments, respectively. Our income from
continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest
during 2003 included a $102 million goodwill impairment
charge associated with the Fleet Management Services business,
which was excluded from the results of our reportable segments.
The $161 million (48%) decrease in Income from continuing
operations before income taxes and minority interest from 2003
to 2004 was due to a $630 million decrease in Income from
continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest
from our Mortgage Production segment that was partially offset
by the goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2003, increases of
$351 million and $8 million in Income from continuing
operations before income taxes and minority interest for our
Mortgage Servicing and Fleet Management Services segments,
respectively, and an $8 million decrease in other expenses
not allocated to our reportable segments. Our overall effective
tax rate was 45.3% and 52.9% for 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The difference in the effective tax rates was primarily due to
the $102 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in
2003, $96 million of which was not deductible for federal
and state income tax purposes, that was partially offset by
valuation allowances established in 2004, relating principally
to state net operating losses.

69

Table of Contents   

Segment Results   

Discussed below are the results of operations for each of our
reportable segments. Certain income and expenses not allocated
to our reportable segments are reported under the heading Other.
Due to the commencement of operations of the Mortgage Venture in
the fourth quarter of 2005, our management began evaluating the
operating results of each of our reportable segments based upon
Net revenues and segment profit or loss, which is presented as
the income or loss from continuing operations before income tax
provisions and after Minority interest.

(1)  
     
    As there was no Minority interest recorded in the Consolidated
    Financial Statements during the years ended December 31,
    2004 and 2003, segment profit equaled Income from continuing
    operations before income taxes and minority interest during
    those periods. 

(2)  
     
    Expenses reported under the heading Other for 2003 were
    primarily a goodwill impairment charge of $102 million for
    the Fleet Management Services segment. 

Mortgage Production Segment  

Net revenues decreased by $778 million (53%) during 2004
compared to 2003. As discussed in greater detail below, the
decrease in Net revenues was due to decreases in Gain on sale of
mortgage loans, net of $642 million, Mortgage fees of
$93 million and Mortgage net finance income of
$51 million that were partially offset by an
$8 million increase in Other income.

Segment profit decreased by $630 million (85%) during 2004
compared to 2003, primarily due to the $778 million
decrease in Net revenues that was partially offset by a
$148 million decrease in Total expenses.

70

Table of Contents   

The following tables present a summary of our financial results
and key related drivers for the Mortgage Production segment, and
are followed by a discussion of each of the key components of
Net revenues and Total expenses:

Mortgage Fees   

Mortgage fees consist primarily of fees collected on loans
originated for others (including brokered loans and loans
originated through our financial institutions channel), fees on
cancelled loans, and appraisal and other income generated by our
appraisal services business. Mortgage fees collected on loans
originated through our financial institutions channel are
recorded in Mortgage fees when the financial institution retains
the underlying

71

Table of Contents   

loan. Loans purchased from financial institutions are included
in loans closed to be sold while loans retained by financial
institutions are included in fee-based closings.

Fee income on loans closed to be sold is deferred until the
loans are sold and recognized in Gain on sale of mortgage loans,
net in accordance with SFAS No. 91. Fee income on
fee-based closings is recorded in Mortgage fees and is
recognized at the time of closing.

Loans closed to be sold and fee-based closings are the key
drivers of Mortgage fees. Fees generated by our appraisal
services business are recorded when the services are performed,
regardless of whether the loan closes and are associated with
both loans closed to be sold and fee-based closings.

Mortgage fees decreased by $93 million (29%) during 2004
compared to 2003, which was attributed to the decline in closed
loan volumes of $31.1 billion (37%) between the two
periods, partially offset by higher mortgage fees per loan. Of
the decline in loan closings, $30.8 billion was attributed
to a decline in refinance activity during 2004 compared to 2003.
Refinancing activity is sensitive to interest rate changes
relative to borrowers  current interest rates, and
typically increases when interest rates fall and decreases when
interest rates rise. Accordingly, many borrowers had refinanced
their mortgages prior to 2004 at rates that were at or below
2004 levels. Purchase closings decreased by $357 million
(1%) over the same period.

Gain on Sale of Mortgage Loans, Net   

Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net consists of the following:

Gain on loans sold, including the changes in the fair value of
    all loan-related derivatives including our IRLCs, freestanding
    loan-related derivatives and loan derivatives designated in a
    hedge relationship. See Note 11,  Derivatives and Risk
    Management Activities  in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. To the
    extent the derivatives are considered effective hedges under
    SFAS No. 133, changes in the fair value of the mortgage
    loans would be recorded; 

The initial value of capitalized servicing and other retained
    interests, which represents a non-cash increase to our MSRs.
    Subsequent changes in the fair value and servicing income
    related to the MSRs are recorded in Net loan servicing income;
    and 

Recognition of net loan origination fees and expenses previously
    deferred under SFAS No. 91. 

The components of Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net were as
follows:

Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net decreased by
$642 million (61%) during 2004 compared to 2003. Of this
decrease, $476 million related to the decrease in loans
sold of $27.1 billion (45%) between 2004 and 2003, and the
remaining $166 million decline was a result of lower
margins on loans sold during 2004. The lower margins were the
results of competitive pricing pressures as well as changes in
product mix. Typically, when industry loan volumes decline,
competitive pricing pressures occur as mortgage companies
compete for fewer customers, resulting in lower margins.

Mortgage Net Finance Income   

Mortgage net finance income allocable to the Mortgage Production
segment consists of interest income on MLHS and interest expense
allocated on debt used to fund MLHS, and is driven by the
average volume of loans held for sale, the average volume of
outstanding borrowings, the note rate on loans held for sale,
and the cost of

72

Table of Contents   

funds rate of our outstanding borrowings. Mortgage net finance
income allocable to the Mortgage Production segment declined by
$51 million (46%) during 2004 compared to 2003. The decline
in Mortgage interest income of $60 million (28%) was
primarily due to a reduction in interest income on loans held
for sale due to the lower amount of loans closed to be sold that
was partially offset by the impact of higher average note rates
associated with those loans. The decline in Mortgage interest
income was partially offset by a $9 million reduction in
Mortgage interest expense allocated to the funding of loans held
for sale, which was attributable to the lower volume of loans
held for sale, partially offset by the impact of higher
short-term interest rates.

Other Income   

Other income increased by $8 million (400%) during 2004
compared to 2003, primarily due to the receipt of a one-time
payment during 2004 associated with the termination of the Fleet
Bank relationship resulting from Bank of America s
acquisition of Fleet Bank.

Salaries and Related Expenses   

Salaries and related expenses allocable to the Mortgage
Production segment are reflected net of loan origination costs
deferred under SFAS No. 91 and consist of commissions
paid to employees involved in the loan origination process, as
well as compensation, payroll taxes and benefits paid to
employees in our mortgage production operations and allocations
for overhead. The $74 million (21%) decrease in Salaries
and related expenses during 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily
due to decreases in net commission and salary expense related to
the decline in loan closings, coupled with lower incentive bonus
expense recorded in 2004 as compared to 2003.

Other Operating Expenses   

Other operating expenses allocable to the Mortgage Production
segment are reflected net of loan origination costs deferred
under SFAS No. 91 and consist of production-direct
expenses, appraisal expense and allocations for overhead. Other
operating expenses decreased by $69 million (23%) during
2004 compared to 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable
to the $31.1 billion decline in total loan closings.

Mortgage Servicing Segment  

Net revenues increased by $330 million during 2004 compared
to 2003. As discussed in greater detail below, the increase in
Net revenues was primarily due to increases in Amortization and
valuation adjustments related to MSRs, net of $270 million
and Loan servicing income of $64 million, partially offset
by a $10 million decrease in Mortgage net finance income.

Segment profit increased by $351 million during 2004
compared to 2003 driven by the $330 million increase in Net
revenues and a $21 million decrease in Total expenses.

The following tables present a summary of our financial results
and key related drivers for the Mortgage Servicing segment, and
are followed by a discussion of each of the key components of
Net revenues and Total expenses:

73

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    n/m   Not meaningful. 

Mortgage Net Finance Income   

Mortgage net finance income allocable to the Mortgage Servicing
segment consists of interest income credits from escrow
balances, interest income from investment balances (including
investments held by our reinsurance subsidiary) and interest
expense allocated on debt used to fund our MSRs, and is driven
by the average volume of outstanding borrowings and the cost of
funds rate of our outstanding borrowings. Mortgage net finance
income declined by $10 million (48%) during 2004 compared
to 2003, primarily due to a decrease in income from escrow
balances, as well as higher Mortgage interest expense on debt
allocated to fund MSRs. The decrease in income from escrow
balances was due to a reduction in the amount of escrow balances
held, partially offset by the impact of increasing short-term
interest rates during 2004 compared to 2003. This increase in
Interest expense on debt allocated to fund MSRs was also due to
increasing short-term interest rates during 2004 compared to
2003.

Loan Servicing Income   

Loan servicing income includes recurring servicing fees, other
ancillary fees and net reinsurance income from our wholly owned
reinsurance subsidiary, Atrium. Recurring servicing fees are
recognized upon receipt of the coupon payment from the borrower
and recorded net of guaranty fees. Net reinsurance income
represents premiums earned on reinsurance contracts, net of
ceding commission and adjustments to the allowance for
reinsurance losses. The primary driver for servicing income is
average loan servicing portfolio.

74

Table of Contents   

The components of Loan servicing income were as follows:

Loan servicing income increased by $64 million (15%) from
2003 to 2004, primarily due to the $15.5 billion (12%)
increase in the average loan servicing portfolio.

Amortization and Valuation Adjustments Related to MSRs,
    Net   

Amortization and valuation adjustments related to MSRs, net
includes Amortization of MSRs, Provision for impairment of MSRs
and Net derivative gain related to MSRs. The favorable change of
$270 million (41%) from 2003 to 2004 was attributed to a
$307 million decline in amortization of MSRs, coupled with
a $9 million favorable change in the valuation of our MSRs
and a $46 million decline in net derivative gains. The
components of Amortization and valuation adjustments related to
MSRs, net are discussed separately below.

Amortization of MSRs:  We amortize our MSRs based on the
ratio of net servicing income to the expected net servicing
income over the life of the servicing portfolio. The
amortization rate is applied to the gross book value of the MSRs
to determine amortization expense. The application of the
amortization rate to the gross book value resulted in higher
amortization expense being offset by a recovery of the MSRs
valuation by approximately $61 million in 2004 and
$140 million in 2003. Amortization of our MSRs decreased by
$307 million (52%) during 2004 compared to 2003. The
decrease in amortization expense was primarily attributed to a
lower amortization rate in 2004 compared to 2003 due to a higher
weighted-average life during each amortization period.

Provision for Impairment of MSRs:  The fair value of our
MSRs is estimated based upon estimates of expected future cash
flows from our MSRs considering prepayment estimates, portfolio
characteristics, interest rates based on interest rate yield
curves, implied volatility and other economic factors.
Generally, the value of our MSRs is expected to increase when
interest rates rise and decrease when interest rates decline due
to the effect those changes in interest rates have on prepayment
estimates. Other factors noted above as well as the overall
market demand for MSRs may also affect the MSRs valuation. The
MSRs valuation is validated quarterly by comparison to a
third-party market valuation of our portfolio.

During 2004, the Provision for impairment of MSRs valuation was
$214 million, a favorable change of $9 million (4%)
from 2003. The impairment in 2004 was primarily due to a
flattening of the yield curve during 2004.

Net Derivative Gain Related to MSRs:  We use a combination
of derivatives to protect against potential adverse changes in
the value of our MSRs resulting from a decline in interest
rates. See Note 11,  Derivatives and Risk Management
Activities  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K.  The
amount and composition of derivatives used will depend on the
exposure to loss of value on our MSRs, the expected cost of the
derivatives and the increased earnings generated by origination
of new loans resulting from the decline in interest rates (the
natural business hedge). The natural business hedge provides a
benefit when increased borrower refinancing activity results in
higher production volumes which would partially offset losses in
the valuation of our MSRs thereby reducing the need to use
derivatives. The benefit of the natural business hedge depends
on the decline in interest rates required to create an incentive
for borrowers to refinance their mortgages and lower their rates.

75

Table of Contents   

During 2004, the value of derivatives related to our MSRs
increased by $117 million. During 2003, the value of
derivatives related to our MSRs increased by $163 million.
Our net results from MSRs risk management activities for 2004
was a loss of $158 million as described below.

The following table outlines Net loss on MSRs risk management
activities:

Other Income   

Other income allocable to the Mortgage Servicing segment
consists primarily of net gains on investment securities and
increased by $6 million during 2004 compared to 2003,
primarily due to higher gains on the sale of investment
securities during 2004.

Salaries and Related Expenses   

Salaries and related expenses allocable to the Mortgage
Servicing segment consist of compensation, payroll taxes and
benefits paid to employees in our mortgage loan servicing
operations and allocations for overhead. The $4 million
(10%) decrease in Salaries and related expenses during 2004
compared to 2003 was primarily due to lower incentive bonus
payments in 2004 as compared to 2003 and lower general and
administrative costs allocated to the Mortgage Servicing segment.

Other Operating Expenses   

Other operating expenses allocable to the Mortgage Servicing
segment include servicing-direct expenses, costs associated with
foreclosure and REO and allocations for overhead. Other
operating expenses decreased by $19 million (27%) during
2004 compared to 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable
to improved foreclosure loss experience.

Fleet Management Services Segment  

On February 27, 2004, we acquired First Fleet. Accordingly,
our 2004 results include ten months of First Fleet activity
while 2003 did not include any activity of First Fleet.

Net revenues increased by $209 million (15%) in 2004
compared to 2003, primarily due to the $153 million impact
of the First Fleet acquisition. As discussed in greater detail
below, the increase in revenues was due to increases of
$187 million in Fleet lease income, $15 million in
Other income and $7 million in Fleet management fees.

Segment profit increased by $8 million (20%) in 2004
compared to 2003 due to the $209 million increase in Net
revenues, partially offset by a $201 million increase in
Total expenses.

76

Table of Contents   

The following tables present a summary of our financial results
and related drivers for the Fleet Management Services segment,
and are followed by a discussion of each of the key components
of our Net revenues and Total expenses:

Fleet Management Fees   

Fleet management fees consist primarily of the net revenues of
our principal fee-based products: fuel cards, maintenance
services, accident management services, and monthly management
fees for leased vehicles. Fleet management fees increased by
$7 million (5%) during 2004 compared to 2003. Unit counts
increased in fuel cards, maintenance service cards and accident
management vehicles. Revenues were positively impacted by higher
total volumes in the maintenance services program.

Fleet Lease Income   

Fleet lease income increased by $187 million (16%) during
2004 compared to 2003, primarily due to the $146 million
effect of the First Fleet acquisition. Additionally, increased
depreciation billed as a result of increased leased unit counts
and increased Fleet interest expense on our variable-interest
rate funded leases added to Fleet lease income.

Other Income   

Other income consists principally of the revenue generated by
our dealerships and other miscellaneous revenues. Other income
increased $15 million (21%) during 2004 compared to 2003,
primarily due to the $7 million effect of the First Fleet
acquisition and a $6 million increase in revenue at our
dealerships that was a result of a 9% increase in new and used
car sales.

77

Table of Contents   

Depreciation on Operating Leases   

Depreciation on operating leases is the depreciation expense
associated with our leased assets portfolio. Depreciation on
operating leases increased by $69 million (7%) during 2004
compared to 2003, primarily due to a $32 million effect of
the First Fleet acquisition and higher average depreciation
expense on replaced vehicles in the existing vehicle portfolio.
These increases were partially offset by an increase in motor
company monies retained by the business and recognized during
2004, which are accounted for as adjustments to the basis of the
leased units and increase as volumes increase.

Fleet Interest Expense   

Fleet interest expense increased by $16 million (18%)
during 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in Fleet interest
expense was primarily due to an $11 million effect of the
First Fleet acquisition and higher interest rates.

Other Operating Expenses   

Other Operating increased by $107 million (122%) during
2004 compared to 2003. This increase was primarily due to the
First Fleet acquisition of $96 million.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources  

General   

Our liquidity is dependent upon our ability to fund maturities
of indebtedness, to fund growth in assets under management and
business operations and to meet contractual obligations. We
estimate how these liquidity needs may be impacted by a number
of factors including fluctuations in asset and liability levels
due to changes in our business operations, levels of interest
rates and unanticipated events. The primary operating funding
needs arise from the origination and warehousing of mortgage
loans, the purchase and funding of vehicles under management and
the retention of MSRs. Sources of liquidity include equity
capital including retained earnings, the unsecured debt markets,
bank lines of credit, secured borrowing including the
asset-backed debt markets and the liquidity provided by the sale
or securitization of assets.

In order to ensure adequate liquidity throughout a broad array
of operating environments, our funding plan relies upon multiple
sources of liquidity. We maintain liquidity at the parent
company level through access to the unsecured debt markets and
through contractually committed unsecured bank facilities.
Unsecured debt markets include commercial paper issued by the
parent company which we fully support with committed bank
facilities. These various unsecured sources of funds are
utilized to provide for a portion of the operating needs of our
mortgage and fleet management businesses. In addition, secured
borrowings, including asset-backed debt, asset sales and
securitization of assets are utilized to fund both vehicles
under management and mortgages held for resale.

Given our expectation for business volumes, we believe that our
sources of liquidity are adequate to fund our operations at
least through the end of 2007. We expect aggregate capital
expenditures for 2006 to be between $26 million and
$30 million.

78

Table of Contents   

Cash Flows   

At December 31, 2005, we had $107 million of Total
cash and cash equivalents, a decrease of $238 million from
$345 million at December 31, 2004. The following table
summarizes the changes in Total cash and cash equivalents during
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004:

Continuing Operations  

Operating Activities   

During 2005, we generated $1.2 billion less cash from
operating activities than during 2004. This decrease was
primarily attributable to the timing of transactions whereby
cash used to fund the origination of mortgage loans exceeded
cash received from the sale of mortgage loans. During 2005, net
cash outflows related to the origination and sale of mortgage
loans was $924 million greater than during 2004. Cash flows
related to the origination and sale of mortgage loans may
fluctuate significantly from period to period due to the timing
of the underlying transactions.

Investing Activities   

During 2005, we used $36 million less in investing
activities than during 2004. The decrease in cash used in
investing activities was primarily attributable to a
$557 million greater decrease in Restricted cash related
principally to the redemption of $400 million of senior
notes issued under our Bishop s Gate mortgage warehouse
asset-backed debt arrangement, a $266 million decrease in
cash paid on derivatives related to MSRs and a $158 million
increase in proceeds received from the sale of investment
vehicles by our Fleet Management Services segment. These
decreases in cash used in investing activities were offset by
$363 million of additional cash used by our Fleet
Management Services segment to acquire vehicles, a decrease of
$474 million in net settlement proceeds for derivatives
related to MSRs and an $86 million decrease in cash
provided by other investing activities.

Financing Activities   

During 2005, we generated $892 million more cash from
financing activities than during 2004. During 2005, we used
$6.5 billion more cash for the repayment of debt, including
the repayment of $443 million aggregate

79

Table of Contents   

principal amount of our privately placed senior notes and
$400 million of senior notes issued under our Bishop s
Gate mortgage warehouse asset-backed debt arrangement. This was
offset by $6.5 billion of higher proceeds from borrowings,
a $570 million increase in net short-term borrowings, a
$100 million cash contribution from Cendant related to the
Spin-Off, $15 million of proceeds from the issuance of our
Common stock and $39 million more cash provided by other
financing activities. In 2004, we paid $140 million of
dividends to Cendant and received $2 million of
intercompany funding from Cendant. In 2005, we purchased an
aggregate of $6 million of our Common stock from Cendant in
connection with the Spin-Off and under our odd lot repurchase
program.

Discontinued Operations  

During 2005, our discontinued operations generated
$128 million less cash than during 2004, primarily due to a
$345 million decrease in cash provided by financing
activities of discontinued operations that was partially offset
by a $194 million increase in cash provided by operating
activities of discontinued operations. The decrease in cash
provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to a
$228 million distribution of discontinued operations cash
and cash equivalents to Cendant in connection with the Spin-Off
and $100 million in dividends paid to Cendant by the
discontinued operations during the first month of 2005. The
increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily
due to a $120 million cash inflow related to fuel card
receivables.

Secondary Mortgage Market   

We rely on the secondary mortgage market for a substantial
amount of liquidity to support our operations. Nearly all
mortgage loans that we originate are sold in the secondary
mortgage market, primarily in the form of mortgage-backed
securities ( MBS ), asset-backed securities and
whole-loan transactions. A large component of the MBS we sell is
guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae
(collectively,  Agency MBS ). We also issue non-agency
(or non-conforming) MBS and asset-backed securities. We publicly
issue both non-conforming MBS and asset-backed securities that
are registered with the SEC, and we also issue private
non-conforming MBS and asset-backed securities. Generally, these
types of securities have their own credit ratings and require
some form of credit enhancement, such as over-collateralization,
senior-subordinated structures, primary mortgage insurance,
and/or private surety guarantees.

The Agency MBS market, whole-loan and non-conforming markets for
prime mortgage loans provide substantial liquidity for our
mortgage loan production. We focus our business process on
consistently producing quality mortgages that meet investor
requirements to continue to be able to access these markets.

Indebtedness   

We utilize both secured and unsecured debt as key components of
our financing strategy. Our primary financing needs arise from
our assets under management programs which are summarized in the
table below:

80

Table of Contents   

The following tables summarize the components of our
indebtedness as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:

Asset-Backed Debt  

Vehicle Management Asset-Backed Debt   

Vehicle management asset-backed debt primarily represents
floating-rate debt issued under a domestic financing facility,
Chesapeake Funding LLC ( Chesapeake ), our wholly
owned subsidiary that provides for the issuance of variable-rate
term notes and variable funding notes. As of December 31,
2005 and 2004, variable-rate term notes and variable funding
notes outstanding under this arrangement aggregated
$3.0 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, subordinated notes issued by
Terrapin Funding LLC ( Terrapin ), a consolidated
entity, aggregated $367 million and $370 million,
respectively. Variable-rate term notes, variable funding notes
and the subordinated notes were issued to support the
acquisition of vehicles used by our Fleet Management Services
segment s leasing operations. The debt issued was
collateralized by approximately $3.9 billion of leased
vehicles and related assets, primarily included in Net
investment in fleet leases in the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005, which are not
available to pay our general obligations. The titles to all the
vehicles collateralizing the debt issued by Chesapeake are held
in a bankruptcy remote trust, and we act as a servicer of all
such leases. The bankruptcy remote trust also acts as lessor
under both operating and direct financing lease agreements. The
holders of the notes receive cash flows from lease and other
related receivables, as well as receipts from the sale of
vehicles. Repayments are required on the notes as cash inflows
are received relating to the securitized vehicle leases and
related assets, but no later than the final maturity dates
specified in the indentures of between August 2008 and April
2018 for the variable-rate notes and variable funding notes, and
between August 2030 and August 2037 for the subordinated notes.
The weighted-average interest rate of vehicle management
asset-backed debt arrangements was 4.8% and 2.8% as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

81

Table of Contents   

On July 15, 2005, Chesapeake entered into the
Series 2005-1 Indenture Supplement (the
 Supplement ) to the Base Indenture dated
June 30, 1999, as amended, pursuant to which Chesapeake
issued $100 million of variable funding notes (the
 Notes ). On August 8, 2005, Chesapeake amended
the Supplement (the  Amended Supplement ) to permit
the issuance of up to an additional $600 million of Notes,
bringing the total capacity of the Amended Supplement to
$700 million. This additional asset-backed debt capacity
was used to support the acquisition of vehicles used in PHH
Arval s fleet leasing operations and to retire
$120 million of outstanding term notes. The parties to the
Amended Supplement include Chesapeake as issuer, PHH Arval as
administrator, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent
and indenture trustee, and certain other commercial paper
conduit purchasers, funding agents and banks. The Amended
Supplement was scheduled to expire on July 14, 2006.

On March 7, 2006, Chesapeake changed its name to Chesapeake
Finance Holdings LLC ( Chesapeake Finance ), and it
and Terrapin redeemed all of their outstanding term notes,
variable funding notes and subordinated notes (with aggregate
outstanding principal balances of $1.1 billion,
$1.7 billion and $367 million, respectively) and
terminated the agreements associated with those borrowings.
Concurrently, Chesapeake Funding LLC, a newly formed wholly
owned subsidiary, issued two series of up to $2.7 billion
and $1.0 billion of variable funding notes under
Series 2006-1 and Series 2006-2, respectively, to fund
the redemption of this debt and provide additional committed
funding for the Fleet Management Services operations. The newly
issued variable funding notes are collateralized by leased
vehicles and related assets that are primarily included in Net
investment in fleet leases in the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The assets collateralizing the liabilities of
Chesapeake Funding LLC are not available to pay our general
obligations. The Series 2006-1 and Series 2006-2 notes
will mature on March 6, 2007 and December 1, 2006,
respectively.

The variable-rate term notes and the variable funding notes were
rated AAA and Aaa by Standard & Poor s and
Moody s Investors Service, respectively, as of
December 31, 2005. These ratings are based largely upon the
bankruptcy remoteness of the structure, the performance of the
assets and the maintenance of appropriate levels of
over-collateralization. The ratings of the debt issued by
Chesapeake Finance were withdrawn with the redemption of its
term notes on March 7, 2006. The availability of this
asset-backed debt could suffer in the event of: (i) the
deterioration of the assets underlying the asset-backed debt
arrangement, (ii) our inability to access the asset-backed
debt market to refinance maturing debt or (iii) termination
of our role as servicer of the underlying lease assets in the
event that we default in the performance of our servicing
obligations or we declare bankruptcy or become insolvent.

As of December 31, 2005, the total capacity under vehicle
management asset-backed debt arrangements was approximately
$3.4 billion, and we had no unused capacity available.

Mortgage Warehouse Asset-Backed Debt   

Bishop s Gate is a consolidated bankruptcy remote special
purpose entity ( SPE ) that is utilized to warehouse
mortgage loans originated by us prior to their sale into the
secondary market. As of December 31, 2005, term notes,
subordinated notes and commercial paper issued by Bishop s
Gate aggregated $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2004,
term notes and subordinated notes issued by Bishop s Gate
aggregated $1.3 billion. The debt issued by Bishop s
Gate was collateralized by approximately $1.0 billion of
underlying mortgage loans and related assets, primarily recorded
in Mortgage loans held for sale, net in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005. The
activities of Bishop s Gate are limited to
(i) purchasing mortgage loans from our mortgage subsidiary,
(ii) issuing commercial paper, senior term notes,
subordinated variable-rate certificates and/or borrowing under a
liquidity agreement to effect such purchases,
(iii) entering into interest rate swaps to hedge interest
rate risk and certain non-credit-related market risk on the
purchased mortgage loans, (iv) selling and securitizing the
acquired mortgage loans to third parties and (v) engaging
in certain related transactions. The debt issued by
Bishop s Gate primarily represents floating-rate
instruments and matures between January 2006 and November 2008.
The weighted-average interest rate on debt issued by
Bishop s Gate as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was
4.8% and 2.8%, respectively.

As of September 30, 2006, Bishop s Gate s
commercial paper was rated A1/P1/ F1, its senior term notes are
rated AAA/ Aaa/ AAA and its variable-rate certificates are rated
BBB/ Baa2/ BBB by Standard & Poor s, Moody s

82

Table of Contents   

Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, respectively. These ratings
are largely dependent upon the performance of the underlying
mortgage assets, the maintenance of sufficient levels of
subordinated debt and the timely sale of mortgage loans into the
secondary market. The assets of Bishop s Gate are not
available to pay our general obligations. The availability of
this asset-backed debt could suffer in the event of:
(i) the deterioration in the performance of the mortgage
loans underlying the asset-backed debt arrangement,
(ii) our inability to access the asset-backed debt market
to refinance maturing debt, (iii) our inability to access
the secondary market for mortgage loans or (iv) termination
of our role as servicer of the underlying mortgage assets in the
event that (a) we default in the performance of our
servicing obligations, (b) we declare bankruptcy or become
insolvent or (c) our senior unsecured credit ratings fall
below BB+ or Ba1 by Standard and Poor s and Moody s
Investors Service, respectively.

On July 12, 2006, Bishop s Gate received a notice (the
 Notice ), dated July 10, 2006, from The Bank of
New York, as Indenture Trustee (the  Trustee ), that
certain events of default had occurred under the Base Indenture
dated December 11, 1998 (the  Bishop s Gate
Indenture ) between the Trustee and Bishop s Gate,
pursuant to which Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Loan
Medium-Term Notes and Variable-Rate Notes, Series 1999-1,
Due 2006 and Variable-Rate Notes, Series 2001-2, Due 2008
(collectively, the  Bishop s Gate Notes ) were
issued. The Notice indicated that events of default occurred as
a result of Bishop s Gate s failure to provide the
Trustee with our and certain other audited and unaudited
quarterly financial statements as required under the
Bishop s Gate Indenture. While the Notice further informed
the holders of the Bishop s Gate Notes of these events of
default, the Notice received did not constitute a notice of
acceleration of repayment of the Bishop s Gate Notes. The
Notice created an event of default under the Amended and
Restated Liquidity Agreement dated as of December 11, 1998,
as further amended and restated as of December 2, 2003,
among Bishop s Gate, certain banks listed therein and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Agent (the  Bishop s Gate
Liquidity Agreement ).

As of August 15, 2006 we received all of the required
approvals and executed a Supplemental Indenture to the
Bishop s Gate Indenture waiving any event of default
arising as a result of the failure to provide the Trustee with
our and certain other audited annual and unaudited quarterly
financial statements as required under the Bishop s Gate
Indenture. This waiver is effective provided that such financial
statements are delivered to the Trustee and the rating agencies
on the earlier of December 31, 2006 or the date on or after
September 30, 2006 by which such financial statements are
required to be delivered to the bank group under the
Bishop s Gate Liquidity Agreement. Also executed was a
related waiver of the default under the Bishop s Gate
Liquidity Agreement caused by the Notice under the Bishop s
Gate Indenture for failure to deliver the required financial
statements. A subsequent waiver to the Bishop s Gate
Liquidity Agreement became effective on September 30, 2006,
which extended the delivery date for 2005 annual audited
financial statements to November 30, 2006 and to
December 29, 2006 for the quarterly unaudited financial
statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006,
June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006. Per the
previously obtained approvals under the Supplemental Indenture
to the Bishop s Gate Indenture, the financial statement
delivery requirements under the Bishop s Gate Indenture
have been extended to deadlines that are identical to the
Bishop s Gate Liquidity Agreement.

On September 20, 2006, Bishop s Gate retired
$400 million of term notes and $51 million of
subordinated notes in accordance with their scheduled maturity
dates. Accordingly, availability under our mortgage warehouse
asset-backed debt arrangements has been reduced by
$451 million. Funds for the retirement of this debt were
provided by a combination of the sale of mortgage loans and the
issuance of commercial paper by Bishop s Gate.

We also maintain a committed mortgage repurchase facility (the
 Mortgage Repurchase Facility ) that is used to
finance mortgage loans originated by PHH Mortgage, a wholly
owned subsidiary. We generally use this facility to supplement
the capacity of Bishop s Gate and unsecured borrowings used
to fund our mortgage warehouse needs. On June 30, 2005, we
amended the Mortgage Repurchase Facility by executing the Fourth
Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan Repurchase and Servicing
Agreement (the  Amended Mortgage Repurchase Facility
Agreement ) among Sheffield Receivables Corporation, as
Purchaser, Barclays Bank PLC, New York Branch, as Administrative
Agent, PHH Mortgage Corporation, as Seller and Servicer, and PHH
Corporation, as Guarantor. The Amended Mortgage Repurchase
Facility Agreement increased the capacity of the Mortgage
Repurchase Facility from $150 million to $500 million
and eliminated certain restrictions on the eligibility of
underlying mortgage loan collateral. The Mortgage Repurchase
Facility was collateralized by

83

Table of Contents   

underlying mortgage loans of $274 million, included in
Mortgage loans held for sale, net in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005, and is
funded by a multi-seller conduit. As of December 31, 2005,
borrowings under this floating-rate facility were
$247 million and bore interest at 4.3%. There were no
borrowings under this facility during the year ended
December 31, 2004. The Mortgage Repurchase Facility has a
one-year term that is renewable on an annual basis, subject to
agreement by both parties. Depending on anticipated mortgage
loan origination volume, we may increase the capacity under the
Mortgage Repurchase Facility subject to agreement with the
lender. On January 13, 2006, we extended the expiration
date for this facility to January 12, 2007.

On October 30, 2006, we further amended the Mortgage
Repurchase Facility by executing the Fifth Amended and Restated
Master Repurchase Agreement (the  Repurchase
Agreement ) and the Servicing Agreement (together with the
Repurchase Agreement, the  Amended Repurchase
Agreements ). The Amended Repurchase Agreements increased
the capacity of the Mortgage Repurchase Facility from
$500 million to $750 million, expanded the eligibility
of underlying mortgage loan collateral and modified certain
other covenants and terms. In addition, the Mortgage Repurchase
Facility has been modified to conform to the revised bankruptcy
remoteness rules with regard to repurchase facilities adopted by
the IRS in October 2005. The Mortgage Repurchase Facility as
amended by the Amended Repurchase Agreements has a one-year term
expiring on October 29, 2007 that is renewable on an annual
basis, subject to agreement by the parties. The assets
collateralizing this facility are not available to pay our
general obligations.

During 2005, the Mortgage Venture entered into a
$350 million secured line of credit agreement with Barclays
Bank PLC, Bank of Montreal and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. that is
used to finance mortgage loans originated by the Mortgage
Venture. Borrowings outstanding under this secured line of
credit were $177 million as of December 31, 2005 and
were collateralized by underlying mortgage loans of
$241 million, included in Mortgage loans held for sale, net
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. Effective
June 27, 2006, we amended this agreement to reduce the
capacity under this credit agreement to $200 million. This
floating-rate credit agreement was scheduled to expire on
October 5, 2006 and bore interest at 5.2% on
December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006, the maturity
date of this facility was extended to January 3, 2007.

On June 1, 2006, the Mortgage Venture entered into a
$350 million repurchase facility with Bank of Montreal and
Barclays Bank PLC as Bank Principals and Fairway Finance
Company, LLC and Sheffield Receivables Corporation as Conduit
Principals. The obligations under the repurchase facility are
collateralized by underlying mortgage loans. The cost of the
facility is based upon the commercial paper issued by the
Conduit Principals plus a program fee of 30 bps. In
addition, the Mortgage Venture pays a liquidity fee of
approximately 20 bps on the program size. The maturity date
for this facility is June 1, 2009, subject to annual
renewals of certain underlying conduit liquidity arrangements.

As of December 31, 2005, the total capacity under mortgage
warehouse asset-backed debt arrangements was approximately
$3.3 billion, and we had approximately $1.9 billion of
unused capacity available.

Unsecured Debt  

The public debt markets are a key source of financing for us,
due to their efficiency and low cost relative to certain other
sources of financing. Typically, we access these markets by
issuing unsecured commercial paper and medium-term notes. As of
December 31, 2005, we had a total of approximately
$1.9 billion in unsecured public debt outstanding. Our
maintenance of investment grade ratings as an independent
company is a significant factor in preserving our access to the
public debt markets. Our credit ratings as of September 30,
2006 were as follows:

Moody s    

Investors    
       
      Standard    
       
      Fitch    

Service    
       
      & Poor s    
       
      Ratings    

Senior debt

Baa3 

BBB 

BBB+ 

Short-term debt

P-3 

A-2 

F-2 

84

Table of Contents   

As of September 30, 2006, the ratings outlooks on our
unsecured debt provided by Moody s Investors Service was
Negative, Standard & Poor s was CreditWatch
Negative and Fitch Ratings was Rating Watch Negative.

Among other things, maintenance of our investment grade ratings
requires that we demonstrate high levels of liquidity, including
access to alternative sources of funding such as committed bank
stand-by lines of credit, as well as a capital structure and
leverage appropriate for companies in our industry. A security
rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities
and is subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating
organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of
any other rating.

In the event our credit ratings were to drop below investment
grade, our access to the public debt markets may be severely
limited. The cutoff for investment grade is generally considered
to be a long-term rating of Baa3, BBB-and BBB- for Moody s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor s and Fitch
Ratings, respectively. In the event of a ratings downgrade below
investment grade, we may be required to rely upon alternative
sources of financing, such as bank lines and private debt
placements (secured and unsecured). A drop in our credit ratings
could also increase our cost of borrowing under our credit
facilities. Furthermore, we may be unable to retain all of our
existing bank credit commitments beyond the then existing
maturity dates. As a consequence, our cost of financing could
rise significantly, thereby negatively impacting our ability to
finance some of our capital-intensive activities, such as our
ongoing investment in MSRs and other retained interests.

Term Notes   

On February 9, 2005, we prepaid $443 million aggregate
principal amount of outstanding privately placed senior notes in
cash at an aggregate prepayment price of $497 million,
including accrued and unpaid interest. The prepayment was made
to avoid any potential debt covenant compliance issues arising
from the distributions made prior to the Spin-Off and the
related reduction in our Stockholders  equity. The
prepayment price included an aggregate make-whole amount of
$44 million. During the year ended December 31, 2005,
we recorded a net charge of $37 million in connection with
this prepayment of debt, which consisted of the $44 million
make-whole payment and a write-off of unamortized deferred
financing costs of $1 million, partially offset by net
interest rate swap gains of $8 million. This charge was
included in Spin-Off related expenses in the Consolidated
Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2005.

The outstanding carrying value of term notes at
December 31, 2005 consisted of $1.1 billion of
publicly issued medium-term notes (the  MTNs ) issued
under the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2000 by and
between PHH and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., as
successor trustee for Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (as amended
and supplemented, the  Indenture ) that mature between
January 2007 and April 2018. The outstanding carrying value of
term notes at December 31, 2004 consisted of
$1.4 billion of MTNs and $453 million
($443 million principal amount) of privately placed senior
notes. The effective rate of interest for the MTNs outstanding
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 6.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. The effective rate of interest for the privately
placed fixed-rate senior notes outstanding as of
December 31, 2004 was 7.6%.

On September 14, 2006, we concluded a tender offer and
consent solicitation (the  Offer ) for MTNs issued
under the Indenture. We received consents on behalf of
$585 million and tenders on behalf of $416 million of
the aggregate notional principal amount of the
$1.081 billion of the MTNs. Borrowings of $415 million
were drawn under our Tender Support Facility (defined below) to
fund the bulk of the tendered bonds. Upon receipt of the
required consents related to the Offer, we entered into
Supplemental Indenture No. 4 to the Indenture governing the
MTNs ( Supplemental Indenture No. 4 ) with the
trustee on August 31, 2006, pursuant to which the deadline
for the delivery of our financial statements to the trustee was
extended to December 31, 2006, if necessary. In addition,
the Supplemental Indenture provided for the waiver of all
defaults that have occurred prior to August 31, 2006
relating to our financial statements and other delivery
requirements.

Commercial Paper   

Our policy is to maintain available capacity under our committed
revolving credit facility (described below) to fully support our
outstanding unsecured commercial paper. We had unsecured
commercial paper obligations of $747 million and
$130 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. This floating-rate commercial

85

Table of Contents   

paper matures within 270 days of issuance. The
weighted-average interest rate on outstanding unsecured
commercial paper as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 4.7%
and 2.7%, respectively.

Credit Facilities   

We were party to a $1.25 billion Three Year Competitive
Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement (the  Credit
Facility ), dated as of June 28, 2004 and amended as
of December 21, 2004, among PHH Corporation, a group of
lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent.
On January 6, 2006, we entered into the Amended and
Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement (the
 Amended Credit Facility ), among PHH Corporation, a
group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent, which increased the capacity of the Credit
Facility from $1.25 billion to $1.30 billion, extended
the termination date from June 28, 2007 to January 6,
2011 and created a $50 million United States dollar
equivalent Canadian sub-facility, which is available to our
Fleet Management Services operations in Canada.

Pricing under the Credit Facility was based upon our senior
unsecured long-term debt credit ratings and, as of
December 31, 2005, bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin of
60 bps. The Credit Facility also required us to pay a per
annum facility fee of 15 bps and a per annum utilization
fee of approximately 12.5 bps if our usage exceeded 33% of
the aggregate commitments under the Credit Facility. Pricing
under the Amended Credit Facility is also based upon our senior
unsecured long-term debt ratings. If the ratings on our senior
unsecured long-term debt assigned by Moody s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor s and Fitch Ratings are
not equivalent to each other, the second highest credit rating
assigned by them determines pricing under the Amended Credit
Facility. Borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility bear
interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 38 bps. The Amended
Credit Facility also requires us to pay a per annum facility fee
of 12 bps and a per annum utilization fee of 10 bps if
our usage exceeds 50% of the aggregate commitments under the
Amended Credit Facility. In the event that our second highest
credit rating is downgraded, the margin over LIBOR would become
47.5 bps for the first downgrade and 70 bps for
subsequent downgrades, the facility fee would become 15 bps
for the first downgrade and 17.5 bps for subsequent
downgrades and the utilization fee would become 12.5 bps
for the first downgrade and any subsequent downgrades. Debt
covenants associated with the Amended Credit Facility are
described below in  Debt Covenants.  There were no
borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004.

On April 6, 2006, we entered into a $500 million
unsecured revolving credit agreement (the
 $500 Million Agreement ) with a group of lenders
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, that
expires on April 5, 2007. Pricing, transaction terms and
financial covenants, including the net worth and ratio of
indebtedness to tangible net worth restrictions under the
$500 Million Agreement are substantially the same as those
under the Amended Credit Facility with the addition of a
facility fee of 10 bps against the outstanding commitments
under the facility as of October 6, 2006.

On July 21, 2006, we entered into a $750 million
unsecured credit agreement (the  Tender Support
Facility ) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., as administrative agent, that expires on April 5,
2007. The Tender Support Facility provides $750 million of
capacity solely for the repayment of the MTNs, and was put in
place in conjunction with the Offer. Pricing under the Tender
Support Facility is based upon our senior unsecured long-term
debt ratings assigned by Moody s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor s. If those ratings are not
equivalent to each other, the higher credit rating assigned by
them determines pricing under this agreement, unless there is
more than one rating level difference between the two ratings,
in which case the rating one level below the higher rating is
applied. Borrowings under this agreement bear interest at LIBOR
plus a margin of 60 bps on or before December 14, 2006
and 75 bps after December 14, 2006. In the event that
our higher credit rating is downgraded on or before
December 14, 2006, the margin over LIBOR would become
87.5 bps for the first downgrade and 125 bps for
subsequent downgrades. After December 14, 2006, the margin
over LIBOR would become 100 bps for the first downgrade and
150 bps for subsequent downgrades. The Tender Support
Facility also requires us to pay an initial fee of 10 bps
of the commitment and a per annum facility fee of 12 bps.
In the event that our higher credit rating is downgraded on or
before December 14, 2006, the per annum facility fee would
become 15 bps for the first downgrade and 20 bps for
subsequent downgrades. After December 14, 2006, the per
annum facility fee would become 17.5 bps for the first
downgrade and 22.5 bps for subsequent downgrades. In
addition, we are subject to up to an additional 15 bps in
fees against drawn amounts

86

Table of Contents   

under the Tender Support Facility. The net worth and net ratio
of indebtedness to tangible net worth restrictions under the
Tender Support Facility are generally consistent with those
under the Amended Credit Facility.

We maintain other unsecured revolving credit facilities in the
ordinary course of business as displayed in  Debt
Maturities  below.

Debt Maturities  

The following table provides the contractual maturities of our
indebtedness at December 31, 2005 except for our vehicle
management asset-backed notes, where estimated prepayments have
been used (the indentures related to vehicle management
asset-backed notes require principal payments based on cash
inflows relating to the securitized vehicle leases and related
assets):

As of December 31, 2005, available funding under our
asset-backed debt arrangements and committed unsecured credit
facilities consisted of:

(1)  
     
    Capacity is dependent upon maintaining compliance with, or
    obtaining waivers of, the terms, conditions and covenants of the
    respective agreements. With respect to asset-backed funding
    arrangements, capacity may be further limited by the
    availability of asset eligibility requirements under the
    respective agreements. 

(2)  
     
    Available capacity reflects a reduction in availability under
    the facilities due to an allocation against the facilities of
    $747 million which fully supports the outstanding unsecured
    commercial paper issued by us as of December 31, 2005.
    Under our policy, all of the outstanding unsecured commercial
    paper is supported by available capacity under our unsecured
    credit facilities. 

As of December 31, 2005, we also had $874 million of
availability for public debt issuances under a shelf
registration statement. On March 16, 2006, access to our
shelf registration statement for public debt issuances was no
longer available due to our non-current status with the SEC.

Debt Covenants  

Certain of our debt arrangements require the maintenance of
certain financial ratios and contain restrictive covenants,
including, but not limited to, restrictions on indebtedness of
material subsidiaries, mergers, liens, liquidations and sale and
leaseback transactions. The Credit Facility required that we
maintain: (i) net worth of $1.0 billion plus 25% of
net income, if positive, for each fiscal quarter after
December 31, 2004 and (ii) a ratio of debt to net
worth no greater than 8:1. The Amended Credit Facility requires
that we maintain: (i) on the last day of each fiscal
quarter, net worth of $1.0 billion plus 25% of net income,
if positive, for each fiscal quarter ended after
December 31, 2004 and (ii) at any time, a ratio of
indebtedness to tangible net worth no greater than 10:1.

87

Table of Contents   

The indentures pursuant to which the publicly issued medium-term
notes have been issued require that we maintain a debt to
tangible equity ratio of not more than 10:1. These indentures
also restrict us from paying dividends if, after giving effect
to the dividend, the debt to equity ratio exceeds 6.5:1. At
September 30, 2006, we were in compliance with all of our
financial covenants related to our debt arrangements.

Under many of our financing, servicing, hedging and related
agreements and instruments (collectively, our  Financing
Agreements ), we are required to provide consolidated
and/or subsidiary-level audited annual financial statements,
unaudited quarterly financial statements and other documents.
The delay in completing the 2005 audited financial statements,
as well as the restatement of prior period financial results
created the potential for breaches under these agreements for
failure to deliver the financial statements and/or documents by
specified deadlines, as well as potential breaches of other
covenants. We obtained waivers to extend financial statement
delivery and other document deadlines (the
 Deadlines ) as well as waive certain other potential
breaches under our Amended Credit Agreement, the
$500 Million Agreement, the Bishop s Gate Liquidity
Agreement, the financing agreements for Chesapeake Funding LLC
and other financing agreements. Initial waivers were obtained to
extend the Deadlines to June 15, 2006, and subsequent
waivers were obtained to extend the Deadlines to
September 30, 2006. We have obtained waivers under these
facilities, the Tender Support Facility and other agreements
which waive certain potential breaches of covenants under those
instruments and extend the Deadlines (the  Extended
Deadlines ) for the delivery of our financial statements
and other documents to the various lenders under those
instruments. With respect to our Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006, the Extended Deadline is
December 29, 2006. An additional waiver was not needed for
the extension of the delivery date for the Chesapeake Funding
LLC annual servicing report as this report was provided to the
lenders by the existing September 30, 2006 deadline. We may
require additional waivers in the future, particularly if we are
unable to meet the Extended Deadlines for delivery of our
quarterly financial statements. Our independent registered
public accounting firm s audit report with respect to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contains an explanatory
paragraph stating that the uncertainty about our ability to
comply with certain of our financial agreement covenants
relating to the timely filing of our financial statements raises
substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going
concern.

Under certain of our Financing Agreements, the lenders or
trustees have the right to notify us if they believe we have
breached a covenant under the operative documents and may
declare an event of default. If one or more notices of default
were to be given, we believe we would have various periods in
which to cure such events of default. If we do not cure the
events of default or obtain necessary waivers within the
required time periods or certain extended time periods, the
maturity of some of our debt could be accelerated and our
ability to incur additional indebtedness could be restricted.
Moreover, defaults under certain of our Financing Agreements
would trigger cross-default provisions under certain of our
other financing arrangements. We also obtained certain waivers
and may need to seek additional waivers extending the date for
delivery of the financial statements of our subsidiaries and
other documents related to such financial statements to certain
regulators, investors in mortgage loans and other third parties
in order to satisfy state mortgage licensing regulations and
certain contractual requirements. We will continue to seek
similar waivers as may be necessary in the future.

There can be no assurance that any additional waivers will be
received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers
obtained, including the waivers we have already obtained, will
extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration
event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business
operations. The failure to obtain such waivers could have a
material and adverse effect on our business, liquidity and
financial condition.

Restrictions on Paying Dividends   

Many of our subsidiaries (including certain consolidated
partnerships, trusts and other non-corporate entities) are
subject to restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or
otherwise transfer funds to other consolidated subsidiaries and,
ultimately, to PHH Corporation (the parent company). These
restrictions relate to loan agreements applicable to certain of
our asset-backed debt arrangements and to regulatory
restrictions applicable to the equity of our insurance
subsidiary, Atrium. The aggregate restricted net assets of these
subsidiaries totaled $1.4 billion as of December 31,
2005. These restrictions on net assets of certain subsidiaries,
however, do not directly limit our ability to pay dividends from
consolidated Retained earnings. Pursuant to the terms of the
indentures governing our outstanding term notes, we may not pay
dividends on our Common stock in

88

Table of Contents   

the event that our ratio of debt to equity exceeds 6.5:1, after
giving effect to the dividend payment. The indentures include
other covenants that may restrict our ability to pay dividends,
including a requirement that our ratio of debt to tangible
equity exceeds 10:1. In addition, the Amended Credit Facility,
the $500 Million Agreement and the Tender Support Facility
each include various covenants that may restrict our ability to
pay dividends on our Common stock, including covenants which
require that we maintain: (i) on the last day of each
fiscal quarter, net worth of $1.0 billion plus 25% of net
income, if positive, for each fiscal quarter after
December 31, 2004 and (ii) at any time, a ratio of
indebtedness to tangible net worth no greater than 10:1. Based
on our assessment of these requirements as of December 31,
2005, we do not believe that these restrictions will materially
limit dividend payments on our Common stock in the foreseeable
future. However, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends
on our Common stock in the foreseeable future.

Contractual Obligations   

The following table summarizes our future contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2005. The table below does
not include future cash payments related to interest expense.

(1)  
     
    The table above excludes future cash payments related to
    interest expense. Interest payments during the year ended
    December 31, 2005 totaled $348 million. Interest is
    calculated on most of our debt obligations based on floating
    rates referenced to LIBOR or other short-term interest rate
    indexes. Short-term interest rates increased substantially
    during 2005. For this and other reasons, we expect interest cost
    to increase significantly in 2006. A substantial portion of our
    interest cost related to asset-backed debt is charged to lessees
    pursuant to lease agreements. 

(2)  
     
    Represents the contractual maturities for asset-backed debt
    arrangements, except for notes issued where the indentures
    require payments based on cash inflows relating to the
    securitized vehicle leases and related assets and for which
    estimates of repayments have been used. See
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    Indebtedness   Asset-Backed Debt  and
    Note 15,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements  in the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  

(3)  
     
    Represents unsecured debt including our outstanding unsecured
    term notes and commercial paper. See    Liquidity
    and Capital Resources   Indebtedness  
    Unsecured Debt  and Note 15,  Debt and Borrowing
    Arrangements  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  

(4)  
     
    Includes operating leases for our Mortgage Production and
    Servicing segments in Mt. Laurel, New Jersey; Jacksonville,
    Florida and 29 smaller regional locations throughout the United
    States. Also includes leases for our Fleet Management Services
    segment of its headquarters office in Sparks, Maryland, office
    space and marketing centers in five locations in Canada and five
    smaller regional locations throughout the United States.
    See Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies  in
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  

(5)  
     
    Includes various commitments to purchase goods or services from
    specific suppliers made by us in the ordinary course of our
    business, including those related to capital expenditures. See
    Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies  in the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
    Form  10-K.  

In the normal course of business, we enter into commitments to
either originate or purchase mortgage loans at specified rates.
As of December 31, 2005, we had commitments to fund
mortgage loans with agreed-upon rates

89

Table of Contents   

or rate protection amounting to $4.4 billion. Additionally,
as of December 31, 2005, we had commitments to fund home
equity lines of credit of $2.3 billion and construction
loans of $111 million.

Commitments to sell loans generally have fixed expiration dates
or other termination clauses and may require the payment of a
fee. We may settle the forward delivery commitments on a net
basis; therefore, the commitments outstanding do not necessarily
represent future cash obligations. Our $3.8 billion of
forward delivery commitments as of December 31, 2005
generally will be settled within 90 days of the individual
commitment date.

See Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies  in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Guarantees   

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into numerous
agreements that contain standard guarantees and indemnities
whereby we indemnify another party for breaches of
representations and warranties. Such guarantees or
indemnifications are granted under various agreements, including
those governing leases of real estate, access to credit
facilities and use of derivatives and issuances of debt or
equity securities. The guarantees or indemnifications issued are
for the benefit of the buyers in sale agreements and sellers in
purchase agreements, landlords in lease contracts, financial
institutions in credit facility arrangements and derivative
contracts and underwriters in debt or equity security issuances.
While some of these guarantees extend only for the duration of
the underlying agreement, many survive the expiration of the
term of the agreement or extend into perpetuity (unless subject
to a legal statute of limitations). There are no specific
limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments
that we could be required to make under these guarantees, and we
are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential
amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees as
the triggering events are not subject to predictability. With
respect to certain of the aforementioned guarantees, such as
indemnifications of landlords against third-party claims for the
use of real estate property leased by us, we maintain insurance
coverage that mitigates any potential payments to be made.

Critical Accounting
Policies  

In presenting our financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States,
we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported therein. Several of the estimates and
assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are
inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. However,
events that are outside of our control cannot be predicted and,
as such, they cannot be contemplated in evaluating such
estimates and assumptions. If there is a significant unfavorable
change to current conditions, it could result in a material
adverse impact to our consolidated results of operations,
financial position and liquidity. We believe that the estimates
and assumptions we used when preparing our financial statements
were the most appropriate at that time. Presented below are
those accounting policies that we believe require subjective and
complex judgments that could potentially affect reported results.

Mortgage Servicing Rights   

An MSR is the right to receive a portion of the interest coupon
and fees collected from the mortgagor for performing specified
mortgage servicing activities, which consist of collecting loan
payments, remitting principal and interest payments to
investors, holding escrow funds for payment of mortgage-related
expenses such as taxes and insurance and otherwise administering
our mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The value of mortgage
servicing rights is estimated based upon estimates of expected
future cash flows considering prepayment estimates (developed
using a third-party model described below), our historical
prepayment rates, portfolio characteristics, interest rates
based on interest rate yield curves, implied volatility and
other economic factors. More specifically, we incorporate a
probability weighted option adjusted spread ( OAS )
model to generate and discount cash flows for the MSR valuation.
The OAS model generates numerous interest rate paths then
calculates the MSR cash flow at each monthly point for each
interest rate path and discounts those cash flows back to the
current period. The MSR value is determined by averaging the
discounted cash flows from each of the interest rate paths. The
interest rate paths are generated with a random distribution
centered around implied

90

Table of Contents   

forward interest rates, which are determined from the interest
rate yield curve at any given point of time. As of
December 31, 2005, the implied forward interest rates
project an increase of approximately 2 basis points in the
yield of the  10-year 
Treasury over the next twelve months. Changes in the yield curve
will result in changes to the forward rates implied from that
yield curve.

As noted above, a key assumption in our estimate of the MSR
valuation is forecasted prepayments. We use a third-party model
to forecast prepayment rates at each monthly point for each
interest rate path in the OAS model. The prepayment forecast is
based on historical observations of prepayment behavior in
similar circumstances. The prepayment forecast incorporates loan
characteristics (e.g., loan type and note rate) and factors such
as recent prepayment experience, previous refinance
opportunities and estimated levels of home equity to determine
the prepayment forecast at each monthly point for each interest
rate path.

To the extent that fair value is less than carrying value at the
individual strata level (which is based upon product type and
interest rates of underlying mortgage loans), we would consider
the portfolio to have been impaired and record a related charge.
Reductions in interest rates different than those used in our
models could cause us to use different assumptions in the MSR
valuation, which could result in a decrease in the estimated
fair value of our MSRs, requiring a corresponding reduction in
the carrying value. To mitigate this risk, we use derivatives
that generally increase in value as interest rates decline and
conversely decline in value as interest rates increase.
Additionally, as interest rates decrease, we have historically
experienced increased production revenue resulting from a higher
level of refinancing activity, which over time has historically
mitigated the impact on earnings of the decline in our MSRs (the
natural business hedge).

Changes in the estimated fair value of the mortgage servicing
rights based upon variations in the assumptions (e.g., future
interest rate levels, implied volatility, prepayment speeds)
cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in
assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear.
Changes in one assumption may result in changes to another,
which may magnify or counteract the fair value sensitivity
analysis and would make such an analysis not meaningful.
Additionally, further declines in interest rates due to a
weakening economy and geopolitical risks, which result in an
increase in refinancing activity or changes in assumptions,
could adversely impact the valuation. The carrying value of our
MSRs was approximately $1.9 billion as of December 31,
2005 and the total portfolio associated with our capitalized
MSRs approximated $145.8 billion as of December 31,
2005 (see Note 8,  Mortgage Servicing Rights  in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K  for a
detailed discussion of the effect of any changes to the value of
this asset during 2005, 2004 and 2003). The effects of certain
adverse potential changes in the estimated fair value of our
MSRs are detailed in Note 10,  Mortgage Loan
Securitizations  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K. 

Financial Instruments   

We estimate fair values for each of our financial instruments,
including derivative instruments. Most of these financial
instruments are not publicly traded on an organized exchange. In
the absence of quoted market prices, we must develop an estimate
of fair value using dealer quotes, present value cash flow
models, option-pricing models or other conventional valuation
methods, as appropriate. The use of these fair value techniques
involves significant judgments and assumptions, including
estimates of future interest rate levels based on interest rate
yield curves, prepayment and volatility factors, and an
estimation of the timing of future cash flows. The use of
different assumptions may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value amounts recorded in our financial
statements. See Note 22,  Fair Value of Financial
Instruments  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this
Form  10-K.  In
addition, hedge accounting requires that, at the beginning of
each hedge period, we justify an expectation that the
relationship between the changes in the fair value of
derivatives designated as hedges compared to the changes in the
fair value of the underlying hedged items will be highly
effective. This effectiveness assessment involves an estimation
of changes in the fair value resulting from changes in interest
rates and corresponding changes in prepayment levels, as well as
the probability of the occurrence of transactions for cash flow
hedges. The use of different assumptions and changing market
conditions may impact the results of the effectiveness
assessment and ultimately the timing of when changes in
derivative fair values and the underlying hedged items are
recorded in earnings. See  Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  for a
sensitivity analysis based on hypothetical changes to these
assumptions.

91

Table of Contents   

Goodwill   

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we assess the
carrying value of goodwill annually, or more frequently if
circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. In
performing this analysis, we compare the carrying value of our
reporting units to their fair value. Our reporting units are
First Fleet, the Fleet Management Services segment excluding
First Fleet, PHH Home Loans, the Mortgage Production segment
excluding PHH Home Loans and the Mortgage Servicing segment.
When determining the fair value of our reporting units, we
utilize discounted cash flows and incorporate assumptions that
we believe marketplace participants would utilize. When
available and as appropriate, we use comparative market
multiples and other factors to corroborate the discounted cash
flow results.

In connection with the Spin-Off, there was a change to
Cendant s reporting unit structure, which included our
Mortgage Services business that resulted in the reallocation of
Goodwill from us to other Cendant entities. We recorded a
goodwill impairment charge of $102 million in 2003 for the
Fleet Management Services segment resulting from our analysis of
the fair market value of the Fleet Management Services business
in relation to the carrying value of its net assets. The
aggregate carrying value of our Goodwill was $87 million at
December 31, 2005. See Note 6,  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets  in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K. 

Recently Issued
Accounting Pronouncements  

For detailed information regarding recently issued accounting
pronouncements and the expected impact on our business, see
Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this
Form  10-K. 

Item 7A.  
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk   

Our principal market exposure is to interest rate risk,
specifically long-term Treasury and mortgage interest rates due
to their impact on mortgage-related assets and commitments. We
also have exposure to LIBOR and commercial paper interest rates
due to their impact on variable-rate borrowings, other interest
rate sensitive liabilities and net investment in floating-rate
lease assets. We anticipate that such interest rates will remain
a primary market risk for the foreseeable future.

Interest Rate
Risk  

Mortgage Servicing Rights   

Our MSRs are subject to substantial interest rate risk as the
mortgage notes underlying the MSRs permit the borrowers to
prepay the loans. Therefore, the value of the MSRs tends to
diminish in periods of declining interest rates (as prepayments
increase) and increase in periods of rising interest rates (as
prepayments decrease). We use a combination of derivative
instruments to offset potential adverse changes in the fair
value of our MSRs that could affect reported earnings.

Other Mortgage-Related Assets   

Our other mortgage-related assets are subject to interest rate
and price risk created by (i) our commitments to fund
mortgages to borrowers who have applied for loan funding and
(ii) loans held in inventory awaiting sale into the
secondary market (which are presented as Mortgage loans held for
sale, net in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets). We
use a combination of forward delivery commitments and option
contracts to economically hedge our commitments to fund
mortgages. Interest rate and price risk related to MLHS are
hedged with mortgage forward delivery commitments. These forward
delivery commitments fix the forward sales price that will be
realized in the secondary market and thereby reduce the interest
rate and price risk to us.

Indebtedness   

The debt used to finance much of our operations is also exposed
to interest rate fluctuations. We use various hedging strategies
and derivative financial instruments to create a desired mix of
fixed and floating-rate assets and

92

Table of Contents   

liabilities. Derivative instruments used in these hedging
strategies include swaps and instruments with purchase option
features.

Consumer Credit
Risk  

Conforming conventional loans serviced by us are securitized
through Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac programs. Such servicing is
performed on a non-recourse basis, whereby foreclosure losses
are generally the responsibility of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
The government loans serviced by us are generally securitized
through Ginnie Mae programs. These government loans are either
insured against loss by the Federal Housing Administration or
partially guaranteed against loss by the Department of Veterans
Affairs. Additionally, jumbo mortgage loans are serviced for
various investors on a non-recourse basis.

While the majority of the mortgage loans serviced by us are sold
without recourse, we have a program in which we provide credit
enhancement for a limited period of time to the purchasers of
mortgage loans by retaining a portion of the credit risk. The
retained credit risk, which represents the unpaid principal
balance of the loans, was $5.1 billion as of
December 31, 2005. In addition, we have $594 million
of recourse on specific mortgage loans that have been sold as of
December 31, 2005.

We also provide representations and warranties to purchasers and
insurers of the loans sold. In the event of a breach of these
representations and warranties, we may be required to repurchase
a mortgage loan or indemnify the purchaser, and any subsequent
loss on the mortgage loan may be borne by us. If there is no
breach of a representation and warranty provision, we have no
obligation to repurchase the loan or indemnify the investor
against loss. Our owned servicing portfolio represents the
maximum potential exposure related to representations and
warranty provisions.

As of December 31, 2005, we had a liability of
$20 million, recorded in Other liabilities in our
Consolidated Balance Sheet, for probable losses related to our
loan servicing portfolio.

Through our wholly owned mortgage reinsurance subsidiary,
Atrium, we have entered into contracts with several primary
mortgage insurance companies to provide mortgage reinsurance on
certain mortgage loans in our loan servicing portfolio. Through
these contracts, we are exposed to losses on mortgage loans
pooled by year of origination. Loss rates on these pools are
determined based on the unpaid principal balance of the
underlying loans. We indemnify the primary mortgage insurers for
loss rates that fall between a stated minimum and maximum. In
return for absorbing this loss exposure, we are contractually
entitled to a portion of the insurance premium from the primary
mortgage insurers. As of December 31, 2005, we provided
such mortgage reinsurance for approximately $11.2 billion
of mortgage loans in our servicing portfolio. As stated above,
our contracts with the primary mortgage insurers limit our
maximum potential exposure to losses, which was
$746 million as of December 31, 2005. We are required
to hold securities in trust related to this potential
obligation, which were included in Restricted Cash in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31,
2005. As of December 31, 2005, a liability of
$15 million was recorded in Other liabilities in our
Consolidated Balance Sheet for estimated losses associated with
our mortgage reinsurance activities.

See Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies  in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K. 

Commercial Credit
Risk  

We are exposed to commercial credit risk for our clients under
the lease and service agreements for PHH Arval. We manage such
risk through an evaluation of the financial position and
creditworthiness of the client, which is performed on at least
an annual basis. The lease agreements allow PHH Arval to refuse
any additional orders; however, PHH Arval would remain obligated
for all units under contract at that time. The service
agreements can generally be terminated upon 30 days written
notice. PHH Arval has no significant client concentrations as no
client represents more than 5% of the Net revenues of the
business during the year ended December 31, 2005. PHH
Arval s historical net losses as a percentage of the ending
dollar amount of leases have not exceeded 0.07% in any of the
last five fiscal years.

93

Table of Contents   

Counterparty Credit
Risk  

We are exposed to counterparty credit risk in the event of
non-performance by counterparties to various agreements and
sales transactions. We manage such risk by evaluating the
financial position and creditworthiness of such counterparties
and/or requiring collateral, typically cash, in instances in
which financing is provided. We mitigate counterparty credit
risk associated with our derivative contracts by monitoring the
amount for which we are at risk with each counterparty to such
contracts, requiring collateral posting, typically cash, above
established credit limits, periodically evaluating counterparty
creditworthiness and financial position, and where possible,
dispersing the risk among multiple counterparties.

As of December 31, 2005 there were no significant
concentrations of credit risk with any individual counterparty
or groups of counterparties. Concentrations of credit risk
associated with receivables are considered minimal due to our
diverse customer base. With the exception of the financing
provided to customers of our mortgage business, we do not
normally require collateral or other security to support credit
sales.

Sensitivity
Analysis  

We assess our market risk based on changes in interest rates
utilizing a sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis
measures the potential impact on fair values based on
hypothetical changes (increases and decreases) in interest rates.

We use a duration-based model in determining the impact of
interest rate shifts on our debt portfolio, certain other
interest-bearing liabilities and interest rate derivatives
portfolios. The primary assumption used in these models is that
an increase or decrease in the benchmark interest rate produces
a parallel shift in the yield curve across all maturities.

We utilize a probability weighted OAS model to determine the
fair value of MSRs and the impact of parallel interest rate
shifts on MSRs. The primary assumptions in this model are
prepayment speeds, OAS (discount rate) and implied volatility.
However, this analysis ignores the impact of interest rate
changes on certain material variables, such as the benefit or
detriment on the value of future loan originations and
non-parallel shifts in the spread relationships between
mortgage-backed securities, swaps and Treasury rates. For
mortgage loans, IRLCs, forward delivery commitments and options,
we rely on market sources in determining the impact of interest
rate shifts. In addition, for IRLCs, the borrower s
propensity to close their mortgage loans under the commitment is
used as a primary assumption.

Our total market risk is influenced by a wide variety of factors
including market volatility and the liquidity of the markets.
There are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity
analysis presented, including the necessity to conduct the
analysis based on a single point in time and the inability to
include the complex market reactions that normally would arise
from the market shifts modeled.

We used December 31, 2005 market rates on our instruments
to perform the sensitivity analysis. The estimates are based on
the market risk sensitive portfolios described in the preceding
paragraphs and assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in interest
rate yield curves.

94

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the estimated change in the fair
value of our assets and liabilities sensitive to interest rates
as of December 31, 2005 given hypothetical instantaneous
parallel shifts in the yield curve:

95

Item 8.  
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

Page    

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

97 

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

98 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

101 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

102 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in
    Stockholders  Equity 

103 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

104 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements 

105 

Schedules:

Schedule I   Condensed Financial
    Information of Registrant 

172 

Schedule II   Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts and Reserves 

180 

96

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of PHH
Corporation: 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
PHH Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ),
formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cendant Corporation, as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PHH
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements, on January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the
fair-value method of accounting for stock-based compensation,
and during 2003, the Company adopted the consolidation
provisions for variable interest entities.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements, the accompanying 2004 and 2003 consolidated
financial statements have been restated.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been
prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going
concern. As discussed in Note 28 to the consolidated
financial statements, the uncertainty about the Company s
ability to comply with certain of its financing agreement
covenants relating to the timely filing of the Company s
financial statements raises substantial doubt about its ability
to continue as a going concern. Management s plans
concerning these matters are also described in Note 28. The
consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments
that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

We were engaged to audit, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and our report
dated November 22, 2006 disclaimed an opinion on
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting because
of a scope limitation and expressed an adverse opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting because of material weaknesses.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

November 22, 2006

97

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of PHH
Corporation: 

We were engaged to audit management s assessment regarding
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
of PHH Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as
of December 31, 2005. The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting.

As described in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 181, the
Company was unable to complete its assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting. Accordingly, we are unable to perform
auditing procedures necessary to form an opinion on
management s assessment.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
company s principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
by the company s board of directors, management, and other
personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
improper management override of controls, material misstatements
due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination
of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The
following five material weaknesses have been identified and
included in management s assessment:

I. The Company did not have adequate controls in place to
    establish and maintain an effective control environment.
    Specifically, the following deficiencies in the control
    environment in the aggregate constitute a material weakness: 

Senior management of the Company did not establish and maintain
    a proper tone as to internal control over financial reporting.
    Specifically, senior management did not emphasize, through
    consistent communication, the importance of internal control
    over financial reporting. 

The Company did not maintain a sufficient complement of
    personnel with the appropriate level of knowledge, experience
    and training in the application of accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) and
    in internal control over financial reporting commensurate with
    its financial reporting obligations. 

The Company did not maintain sufficient, formalized and
    consistent finance and accounting policies nor did the Company
    maintain adequate controls with respect to the review,
    supervision and monitoring of its accounting operations. 

98

Table of Contents   

The Company did not establish and maintain adequate segregation
    of duties, assignments and delegation of authority with clear
    lines of communication to provide reasonable assurance that it
    was in compliance with existing policies and procedures. 

The Company did not establish and maintain a sufficient internal
    audit function and did not complete an adequate fraud risk
    assessment to determine the appropriate internal audit scope. 

The material weakness in the Company s internal control
environment increases the likelihood of material misstatements
in the Company s interim and annual financial statements
and contributed to the existence of the other material
weaknesses.

II. The Company did not maintain effective controls,
    including monitoring, to provide reasonable assurance that the
    Company s financial closing and reporting process was
    timely and accurate. Specifically, the following deficiencies in
    the aggregate constitute a material weakness: 

The Company did not maintain sufficient, formalized written
    policies and procedures governing the financial closing and
    reporting process. 

The Company did not maintain effective controls to provide
    reasonable assurance that management oversight and review
    procedures were properly performed over the accounts and
    disclosures in its consolidated financial statements. In
    addition, the Company did not maintain effective controls over
    the reporting of information to management to provide reasonable
    assurance that the preparation of its consolidated financial
    statements and disclosures were complete and accurate. 

The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
    recording of journal entries. Specifically, effective controls
    were not designed and in place to provide reasonable assurance
    that journal entries were prepared with sufficient supporting
    documentation and reviewed and approved to provide reasonable
    assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the entries
    recorded. 

The Company did not maintain effective controls to provide
    reasonable assurance that accounts were complete and accurate
    and agreed to detailed supporting documentation and that
    reconciliations of accounts were properly performed, reviewed
    and approved. 

III. The Company did not maintain effective controls,
    including policies and procedures, over accounting for certain
    derivative financial instruments in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
    ( SFAS No. 133 ). Specifically, the
    following deficiencies in the process of accounting for
    derivative instruments in the aggregate constitute a material
    weakness: 

In its transition to an independent, publicly-traded company,
    the Company did not implement effective policies and procedures
    to transition the responsibilities related to ongoing monitoring
    of debt-related derivative transactions and the application of
    appropriate accounting for debt-related derivative transactions
    to its corporate treasury and accounting functions. 

The Company did not establish and maintain sufficient policies
    and procedures relating to the application of the proper
    accounting treatment for derivative financial instruments and
    the Company did not maintain sufficient documentation to meet
    the criteria for hedge accounting treatment under
    SFAS No. 133. 

The Company did not monitor and maintain adequate documentation
    relating to compliance with existing policies and procedures to
    provide reasonable assurance of the proper accounting treatment
    for derivatives. 

IV. The Company did not maintain effective controls,
    including policies and procedures, over accounting for
    contracts. Specifically, the Company did not have sufficient
    policies and procedures to provide reasonable assurance that
    contracts were reviewed by the accounting department to evaluate
    and document the appropriate application of GAAP which resulted
    in a material weakness in the accounting for contracts. 

99

Table of Contents   

V. The Company did not design and maintain effective
    controls over accounting for income taxes. Specifically, the
    following deficiencies in the process of accounting for income
    taxes in the aggregate constitute a material weakness: 

The Company did not maintain effective policies and procedures
    to provide reasonable assurance that management oversight and
    review procedures were adequately performed for the proper
    reporting of income taxes in the Company s consolidated
    financial statements. 

The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
    calculation and recording of federal and state income taxes to
    provide reasonable assurance of the appropriate accounting
    treatment in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. 

The material weaknesses identified resulted in the restatement
of the Company s consolidated financial statements and
related disclosures for the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2003. The material weakness in the Company s internal
control environment increases the likelihood of material
misstatements in the Company s interim and annual financial
statements and contributed to the existence of the other
material weaknesses.

These material weaknesses were considered in determining the
nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit
of the consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005,
of the Company and this report does not affect our report on
such consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedules.

Because of the limitation on the scope of our audit described in
the second paragraph of this report, the scope of our work was
not sufficient to enable us to express, and we do not express,
an opinion on management s assessment referred to above. In
our opinion, because of the effect of the material weaknesses
described above on the achievement of the objectives of the
control criteria and the effects of any other material
weaknesses, if any, that we might have identified if we had been
able to perform sufficient auditing procedures relating to
management s assessment regarding the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, the Company has not
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established
in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.

We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005,
of the Company and have issued our reports dated
November 22, 2006. Our reports expressed an unqualified
opinion on those consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedules and included explanatory paragraphs
regarding the uncertainty about the Company s ability to
comply with certain of its financing agreement covenants
relating to the timely filing of the Company s financial
statements which raises substantial doubt about its ability to
continue as a going concern, the Company s adoption of new
accounting standards and the restatement of the 2004 and 2003
consolidated financial statements.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

November 22, 2006

100

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

101

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

102

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

103

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(1)  
     
    Excludes a $44 million make-whole payment made during the
    year ended December 31, 2005 that is discussed further in
    Note 15,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements.  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

104

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Throughout these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
all referenced amounts for prior periods and prior period
comparisons reflect the balances and amounts on a restated
basis. For information on the restatement, see Note 2,
 Prior Period Adjustments. 

1.  
     
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Basis of
Presentation  

PHH Corporation and subsidiaries ( PHH  or the
 Company ) is a leading outsource provider of mortgage
and fleet management services operating in the following
business segments:

Mortgage Production    provides mortgage loan
    origination services and sells mortgage loans. 

Mortgage Servicing    provides servicing
    activities for originated and purchased loans. 

Fleet Management Services    provides commercial
    fleet management services. 

As of December 31, 2004, PHH was a wholly owned subsidiary
of Cendant Corporation that provided homeowners with mortgages,
serviced mortgage loans, facilitated employee relocations and
provided vehicle fleet management and fuel card services to
commercial clients. During 2006, Cendant Corporation changed its
name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. (see Note 27,
 Subsequent Events  however, within these Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, PHH s former parent
company, now known as Avis Budget Group, Inc. (NYSE: CAR) is
referred to as  Cendant.  On February 1, 2005,
PHH began operating as an independent, publicly traded company
pursuant to a spin-off from Cendant (the  Spin-Off ).
Prior to the Spin-Off and subsequent to December 31, 2004,
PHH underwent an internal reorganization whereby it distributed
its former relocation and fuel card businesses to Cendant, and
Cendant contributed its former appraisal business, Speedy Title
and Appraisal Review Services LLC ( STARS ), to PHH.
STARS was previously a wholly owned subsidiary of PHH until it
was distributed, in the form of a dividend, to a wholly owned
subsidiary of Cendant not within the PHH ownership structure on
December 31, 2002. Cendant then owned STARS through its
subsidiaries outside of PHH from December 31, 2002 until it
contributed STARS to PHH as part of the internal reorganization
discussed above.

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts and
transactions of PHH and its subsidiaries, as well as entities in
which the Company directly or indirectly has a controlling
interest. The Mortgage Venture (as defined and discussed further
in Note 3,  Spin-Off from Cendant ) is
consolidated within PHH s Consolidated Financial Statements
and Realogy Corporation s ownership interest is presented
as Minority interest in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and
Statement of Income. Pursuant to Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 141,
 Business Combinations,  Cendant s contribution
of STARS to PHH was accounted for as a transfer of net assets
between entities under common control. Accordingly, the
financial position and results of operations for STARS are
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in continuing
operations for all periods presented. Pursuant to
SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets 
( SFAS No. 144 ), the financial position and
results of operations of the Company s former relocation
and fuel card businesses have been segregated and reported as
discontinued operations for all periods presented (see
Note 25,  Discontinued Operations  for more
information).

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

Changes in Accounting
Policies  

Consolidation Policy.  On January 17, 2003, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
FASB Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities  ( FIN 46 ). FIN 46
addresses the

105

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

consolidation of variable interest entities ( VIEs ),
including special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that are
not controlled through voting interests or in which the equity
investors do not bear the residual economic risks and rewards.
The provisions of FIN 46 were effective immediately for
transactions entered into by the Company subsequent to
January 31, 2003 and became effective for all other
transactions as of July 1, 2003. However, in October 2003,
the FASB permitted companies to defer the July 1, 2003
effective date to December 31, 2003, in whole or in part.
On December 24, 2003, the FASB issued a complete
replacement of FIN 46 ( FIN 46R ), which
clarified certain complexities of FIN 46. Although adoption
for non-SPEs was not required until March 31, 2004, the
Company adopted FIN 46R in its entirety as of
December 31, 2003.

In connection with FIN 46R, when evaluating an entity for
consolidation, the Company first determines whether an entity
should be evaluated as a voting interest entity or a VIE. The
primary factors analyzed include determining the rights and
obligations of the investees as well as the equity at risk of
each investee. Generally, the Company will consolidate an entity
not deemed either a VIE or qualifying special purpose entity
( QSPE ) upon a determination that its ownership,
direct or indirect, exceeds fifty percent of the outstanding
voting shares of an entity and/or that it has the ability to
control the financial or operating policies through its voting
rights, board representation or other similar rights.

If the entity is determined to be a VIE, the Company evaluates
which entity would be considered the entity s primary
beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is determined by assessing
which variable interest holder absorbs the majority of the
expected losses of the entity, receives a majority of the
expected returns of the entity or both. The Company consolidates
those VIEs for which it has determined that it is the primary
beneficiary.

For entities where the Company does not have a controlling
interest (financial or operating), the investments in such
entities are classified as available-for-sale debt securities or
accounted for using the equity or cost method, as appropriate.

Prior to the adoption of FIN 46 and FIN 46R, the
Company did not consolidate SPE and SPE-type entities unless the
Company retained both control of the assets transferred and the
risks and rewards of those assets. Additionally, non-SPE-type
entities were only consolidated if the Company s ownership
exceeded fifty percent of the outstanding voting shares of an
entity and/or if the Company had the ability to control the
financial or operating policies of an entity through its voting
rights, board representation or other similar rights. In
connection with the implementation of FIN 46, the Company
consolidated Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Trust
( Bishop s Gate ) effective July 1, 2003
through the application of the prospective transition method.
The consolidation of Bishop s Gate resulted in the
recognition of a non-cash charge of $35 million, net of
$25 million of income taxes, in the third quarter of 2003
to account for the cumulative effect of the accounting change.
See Note 15,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements 
for more information regarding Bishop s Gate.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  On
July 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 149,
 Amendment of Statement No. 133 on Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities 
( SFAS No. 149 ). This standard amends and
clarifies the accounting for derivative instruments, including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and
for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities  ( SFAS No. 133 ). The
impact of adopting this standard was not material to the
Company s results of operations or financial position.

Stock-Based Compensation.  Prior to the Spin-Off, all
employee stock awards were granted by Cendant. Prior to
January 1, 2003, Cendant measured its stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value approach under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion ( APB ) No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB
No. 25 ), as permitted by SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation 
( SFAS No. 123 ). Accordingly, Cendant did
not recognize compensation expense upon the issuance of its
stock options to employees because the option terms were fixed
and the exercise price equaled the market price of the
underlying common stock on the date of grant. Therefore, the
Company was not allocated compensation expense upon
Cendant s issuance of common stock options to the
Company s employees.

106

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

On January 1, 2003, Cendant adopted the fair value method
of accounting for stock-based compensation provisions of
SFAS No. 123, which is considered by the FASB to be
the preferable accounting method for stock-based employee
compensation. Cendant also adopted SFAS No. 148,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  
Transition and Disclosure 
( SFAS No. 148 ) in its entirety on
January 1, 2003, which amended SFAS No. 123 to
provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change
to the fair value-based method of accounting. After the adoption
of these standards, Cendant expensed all employee stock awards
over their vesting periods based upon the fair value of the
award on the date of grant. As Cendant elected to use the
prospective transition method, Cendant allocated expense to the
Company for only employee stock awards that were granted
subsequent to December 31, 2002.

Subsequent to the Spin-Off, certain Cendant stock-based awards
previously granted to the Company s employees were
converted into options and restricted stock units of the
Company, and certain employees were awarded additional
stock-based compensation. The Company continued to apply the
fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation
provisions of SFAS No. 123.

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and net
earnings per share as if the fair value-based method had been
applied to all employee stock awards granted to the
Company s employees for all periods presented:

(1)  
     
    Stock-based compensation expense recorded during the year ended
    December 31, 2005 included a pre-tax charge of
    $4 million associated with the conversion of certain
    Cendant stock options held by PHH employees to PHH stock
    options, as discussed in Note 21,  Stock-Based
    Compensation.  

Loan Commitments.  On March 9, 2004, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105,  Application
of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments 
( SAB 105 ). SAB 105 summarized the views of
the SEC staff regarding the application of accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States to loan commitments
accounted for as derivative instruments. The SEC staff believes
that in recognizing a loan commitment, entities should not
consider expected future cash flows related to the associated
servicing of the loan until the servicing asset has been
contractually separated from the underlying loan by sale or
securitization of the loan with the servicing retained. The
provisions of SAB 105

107

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

are applicable to all loan commitments accounted for as
derivatives and entered into subsequent to
March 31, 2004. The adoption of SAB 105 did not
have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as the
Company s pre-existing accounting treatment for such loan
commitments was consistent with the provisions of SAB 105.

Recently Issued
Accounting Pronouncements  

Share-Based Payments.  In December 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment 
( SFAS No. 123(R) ), which eliminates the
alternative to measure stock-based compensation awards using the
intrinsic value approach permitted by APB No. 25 and
SFAS No. 123. Prior to the Spin-Off and since
Cendant s adoption on January 1, 2003 of the fair
value method of accounting for stock-based compensation
provisions of SFAS No. 123 and the transitional
provisions of SFAS No. 148, the Company was allocated
compensation expense upon Cendant s issuance of common
stock options to the Company s employees. As a result, the
Company has been recording stock-based compensation expense
since January 1, 2003 for employee stock awards that were
granted or modified subsequent to December 31, 2002.

On March 29, 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107,  Share-Based Payment 
( SAB 107 ). SAB 107 summarizes the views of
the staff regarding the interaction between
SFAS No. 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations
and provides the staff s views regarding the valuation of
share-based payment arrangements for public companies. Effective
April 21, 2005, the SEC issued an amendment to
Rule  4-01(a)  of
Regulation  S-X 
amending the effective date for compliance with
SFAS No. 123(R) so that each registrant that is not a
small business issuer will be required to prepare financial
statements in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R)
beginning with the first interim or annual reporting period of
the registrant s first fiscal year beginning on or after
June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)
and the related SEC guidance is not expected to have a material
impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.  In May 2005,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes
and Error Corrections 
( SFAS No. 154 ), which replaces APB
No. 20,  Accounting Changes. 
SFAS No. 154 changes the accounting for, and reporting
of, a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154
requires retrospective application to prior period s
financial statements when voluntary changes in accounting
principles are adopted and when adopting changes required by new
accounting standards when the standard does not include specific
transition provisions, unless it is impracticable to do so.
SFAS No. 154 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. The adoption of
SFAS No. 154 is not expected to have a material impact
on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Accounting for Hybrid Instruments.  In February 2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain
Hybrid Instruments  ( SFAS No. 155 ).
SFAS No. 155 permits an entity to elect fair value
measurement of any hybrid financial instrument that contains an
embedded derivative that otherwise would have required
bifurcation, clarifies which interest-only and principal-only
strips are not subject to the requirements of
SFAS No. 133 and establishes a requirement to evaluate
interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests
that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial
instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring
bifurcation. SFAS No. 155 is effective January 1,
2007. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
SFAS No. 155 on its Consolidated Financial Statements.

Servicing of Financial Assets.  In March 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of
Financial Assets   An Amendment of
SFAS No. 140 
( SFAS No. 156 ). SFAS No. 156:
(i) clarifies when a servicing asset or servicing liability
should be recognized; (ii) requires all separately
recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be
initially measured at fair value, if practicable;
(iii) subsequent to initial measurement, permits an entity
to choose either the amortization method or the fair value
measurement method for each class of separately recognized
servicing assets or servicing liabilities; and (iv) at its
initial adoption, permits a one-time reclassification of
available-for-sale securities to trading securities by entities
with recognized servicing rights.

108

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

SFAS No. 156 is effective for all separately
recognized servicing assets and liabilities acquired or issued
after the beginning of an entity s fiscal year that begins
after September 15, 2006. Earlier adoption is permitted as
of the beginning of an entity s fiscal year, provided the
entity has not yet issued financial statements, including
interim financial statements for any period of that fiscal year.
The Company has chosen to adopt SFAS No. 156 effective
January 1, 2006 and has elected the fair value measurement
method for subsequently measuring its servicing assets. The
election of the fair value measurement method will subject the
Company s earnings to increases and decreases in the value
of its servicing assets. The adoption of SFAS No. 156
is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements as all of the servicing asset
strata are impaired as of December 31, 2005 as discussed
further in Note 8,  Mortgage Servicing Rights. 

Uncertainty in Income Taxes.  In July 2006, the FASB
issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of
FASB Statement No. 109 ( FIN 48 ).
FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and
measurement of a tax position taken in a tax return. The Company
must presume the tax position will be examined by the relevant
tax authority and determine whether it is more likely than not
that the tax position will be sustained upon examination,
including resolution of any related appeals or litigation
processes, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax
position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition
threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to
recognize in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and
transition. FIN 48 is effective January 1, 2007. The
cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48
represents a change in accounting principle and shall be
reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained
earnings. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
adopting FIN 48 on its Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fair Value Measurements.  In September 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements  ( SFAS No. 157 ).
SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a
framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. The changes to current practice resulting from the
application of SFAS No. 157 relate to the definition
of fair value, the methods used to measure fair value and the
expanded disclosures about fair value measurements.
SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007.
Earlier application is encouraged, provided that the reporting
entity has not yet issued financial statements for that fiscal
year, including financial statements for an interim period
within that fiscal year. The provisions of
SFAS No. 157 should be applied prospectively as of the
beginning of the fiscal year in which it is initially applied,
except for certain financial instruments which require
retrospective application as of the beginning of the fiscal year
of initial application (a limited form of retrospective
application). The transition adjustment, measured as the
difference between the carrying amounts and the fair values of
those financial instruments at the date SFAS No. 157
is initially applied, should be recognized as a
cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained
earnings. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
adopting SFAS No. 157 on its Consolidated Financial
Statements and whether to adopt its provisions prior to the
required effective date.

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans   An Amendment of
SFAS Nos. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) 
( SFAS No. 158 ). SFAS No. 158
requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded
status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a
multiemployer plan) as an asset or liability in its statement of
financial position and to recognize changes in that funded
status in the year in which the changes occur through
comprehensive income, net of income taxes.
SFAS No. 158 also requires an employer to measure the
funded status of a plan as of the date of its year-end statement
of financial position. The recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 158 are effective on December 31, 2006,
and the requirement to measure plan assets and benefit
obligations as of the date of the employer s fiscal
year-end statement of financial position is effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2008. Prospective
application is required. The Company is currently evaluating the
impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 on its Consolidated
Financial Statements.

109

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Revenue
Recognition  

Mortgage Production.  Mortgage production includes the
origination (funding either a purchase or refinancing) and sale
of residential mortgage loans. Mortgage loans are originated
through a variety of marketing channels, including relationships
with corporations, financial institutions and real estate
brokerage firms. The Company also purchases mortgage loans
originated by third parties. Fee income consists primarily of
fees collected on loans originated for others (including
brokered loans) and is recorded as revenue when the Company has
completed its obligations related to the underlying loan
transaction. Loan origination fees, commitment fees paid in
connection with the sale of loans and certain direct loan
origination costs associated with loans are deferred until such
loans are sold. Such fees are recorded as adjustments to the
cost-basis of the loan and are included in Gain on sale of
mortgage loans, net when the loan is sold. Sales of mortgage
loans are recorded on the date that ownership is transferred.
Gains or losses on sales of mortgage loans are recognized based
upon the difference between the selling price and the allocated
carrying value of the related mortgage loans sold.

The Company principally sells its originated mortgage loans
directly to government-sponsored entities and other investors;
however, in limited circumstances, the Company sells loans
through a wholly owned subsidiary s public registration
statement. In accordance with SFAS No. 140,
 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
and Extinguishments of Liabilities,  the Company evaluates
each type of sale or securitization for sales treatment. This
review includes both an accounting and a legal analysis to
determine whether or not the transferred assets have been
isolated from the transferor. To the extent the transfer of
assets qualifies as a sale, the Company derecognizes the asset
and records the gain or loss on the sale date. In the event the
Company determines that the transfer of assets does not qualify
as a sale, the transfer would be treated as a secured borrowing.

Interest income is accrued as earned. Loans are placed on
non-accrual status when any portion of the principal or interest
is ninety days past due or earlier when concern exists as to the
ultimate collectibility of principal or interest. Interest
received from loans on non-accrual status is recorded as income
when collected. Loans return to accrual status when principal
and interest become current and are anticipated to be fully
collectible.

Mortgage Servicing.  Mortgage servicing is the servicing
of residential mortgage loans. Loan servicing income represents
recurring servicing and other ancillary fees earned for
servicing mortgage loans owned by investors as well as net
reinsurance income from the Company s wholly owned
reinsurance subsidiary, Atrium Insurance Corporation
( Atrium ). Servicing fees received for servicing
mortgage loans owned by investors are based on a stipulated
percentage of the outstanding monthly principal balance on such
loans, or the difference between the weighted-average yield
received on the mortgages and the amount paid to the investor,
less guaranty fees, expenses associated with business
relationships and interest on curtailments. Loan servicing
income is receivable only out of interest collected from
mortgagors, and is recorded as income when collected. Late
charges and other miscellaneous fees collected from mortgagors
are also recorded as income when collected. Costs associated
with loan servicing are charged to expense as incurred.

Fleet Leasing Services.  The Company provides fleet
management services to corporate clients and government
agencies. These services include management and leasing of
vehicles and other fee-based services for clients  vehicle
fleets. The Company leases vehicles primarily to corporate fleet
users under open-end operating and direct financing lease
arrangements where the client bears substantially all of the
vehicle s residual value risk. The lease term under the
open-end lease agreement provides for a minimum lease term of
twelve months and after the minimum term, the lease may be
continued at the lessee s election for successive monthly
renewals. In limited circumstances, the Company leases vehicles
under closed-end leases where the Company bears all of the
vehicle s residual value risk. Gains or losses on the sales
of vehicles under closed-end leases are recorded in Other
income. For operating leases, lease revenues, which contain a
depreciation component, an interest component and a management
fee component, are recognized over the lease term of the
vehicle, which encompasses the minimum lease term and the
 month-to -month
renewals. For direct financing leases, lease

110

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

revenues contain an interest component and a management fee
component. The interest component is recognized using the
effective interest method over the lease term of the vehicle,
which encompasses the minimum lease term and the
 month-to -month
renewals. Amounts charged to the lessees for interest are
determined in accordance with the pricing supplement to the
respective lease agreement and are generally calculated on a
floating-rate basis that varies
 month-to -month in
accordance with changes in the floating-rate index. Amounts
charged to lessees for interest may also be based on a fixed
rate that would remain constant for the life of the lease.
Amounts charged to the lessees for depreciation are based on the
straight-line depreciation of the vehicle over its expected
lease term. Management fees are recognized on a straight-line
basis over the life of the lease. Revenue for other services is
recognized when such services are provided to the lessee.

Revenue for certain services, including fuel card, accident
management services and maintenance services, is based on a
negotiated percentage of the purchase price retained by the
Company for the underlying products or services provided by
third-party suppliers and is recognized when the service is
provided by the supplier. Revenue for other services, including
management fees for leased vehicles, is recognized when such
services are provided to the lessee.

The Company sells certain of its truck and equipment leases to
third-party banks and individual financial institutions. When
the Company sells operating leases, it sells the underlying
assets and assigns any rights to the leases, including future
leasing revenues, to the banks or financial institutions. Upon
the transfer of the title and the assignment of the rights
associated with the operating leases, the Company records the
proceeds from the sale as revenue and recognizes an expense for
the undepreciated cost of the asset sold. Upon the sale or
transfer of rights to direct financing leases, the net gain or
loss is recorded in Other income. Under certain of these sales
agreements, the Company retains some residual risk in connection
with the fair value of the asset at lease termination.

Depreciation on
    Operating Leases and Net Investment in Fleet Leases   

Vehicles are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation.
The initial cost of the vehicles is recorded net of incentives
and allowances from vehicle manufacturers. Leased vehicles are
depreciated on a straight-line basis over a term that generally
ranges from 3 to 6 years.

Advertising
    Expenses   

Advertising costs are expensed in the period incurred.
Advertising expenses, recorded within Other operating expenses
in the Consolidated Statements of Income, were $10 million,
$11 million and $11 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

Income Taxes   

The Company filed its income tax returns for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and for the short period
ended on the effective date of the Spin-Off as part of the
Cendant consolidated federal return and certain Cendant
consolidated state returns. Income tax expense for periods prior
to the Spin-Off is computed as if the Company filed its federal
and state income tax returns on a stand-alone basis. The Company
filed a consolidated federal return and state returns, as
required, for the period from February 1, 2005 through
December 31, 2005 which reported only its taxable income
and the taxable income of those corporations which were its
subsidiaries subsequent to the Spin-Off. The Company recognizes
deferred tax assets and liabilities pursuant to
SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes 
( SFAS No. 109 ). The Company regularly
reviews the deferred tax assets to assess their potential
realization and establishes a valuation allowance for such
assets when the Company believes it is more likely than not that
the benefit will not be realized. Generally, any change in the
valuation allowance is recorded in current tax expense; however,
if the valuation allowance is adjusted in connection with an
acquisition, such adjustment is recorded concurrently through
Goodwill rather than the Provision for income taxes. Income tax
expense includes (i) deferred tax expense, which represents
the net

111

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

change in the deferred tax asset or liability balance during the
year plus any change in the valuation allowance and
(ii) current tax expense, which represents the amount of
taxes currently payable to or receivable from a taxing authority
plus amounts accrued for tax contingencies (including both tax
and interest) in accordance with SFAS No. 5,
 Accounting for Contingencies 
( SFAS No. 5 ). Income tax expense excludes
the tax effects related to adjustments recorded to Accumulated
other comprehensive income as well as the tax effects of
cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents   

Marketable securities with original maturities of three months
or less are included in Cash and cash equivalents.

Restricted
    Cash   

Restricted cash primarily relates to (i) amounts
specifically designated to purchase assets, to repay debt and/or
to provide over-collateralization within the Company s
bankruptcy remote asset-backed debt arrangements,
(ii) funds collected and held for pending mortgage closings
and (iii) accounts held for the capital fund requirements
of and potential claims related to the Company s mortgage
reinsurance subsidiary.

Mortgage Loans Held for
    Sale   

Mortgage loans held for sale ( MLHS ) represent
mortgage loans originated or purchased by the Company and held
until sold to investors. Upon the closing of a residential
mortgage loan originated or purchased by the Company, the
mortgage loan is typically warehoused for a period of up to
60 days and then sold into the secondary market. MLHS are
recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of cost
or market value, which is computed by the aggregate method, net
of deferred loan origination fees and costs. The cost-basis of
MLHS is adjusted to reflect changes in the fair value of the
loans as applicable through fair value hedge accounting. The
fair value is estimated using quoted market prices for
securities backed by similar types of loans and current dealer
commitments to purchase loans. Upon the sale of the underlying
mortgage loans, the mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs )
and servicing obligations of those loans are generally retained
by the Company.

Mortgage Servicing
    Rights   

An MSR is the right to receive a portion of the interest coupon
and fees collected from the mortgagor for performing specified
mortgage servicing activities, which consist of collecting loan
payments, remitting principal and interest payments to
investors, holding escrow funds for payment of mortgage-related
expenses such as taxes and insurance and otherwise administering
the Company s mortgage loan servicing portfolio.

MSRs are created through either the direct purchase of servicing
from a third party or through the sale of an originated loan.
Purchased servicing is recorded at the lower of the purchase
price or fair value. Servicing created through the sale of an
originated loan is determined by an allocation of the cost of
the mortgage loan between the loan sold and the retained
servicing, based on their relative fair values. The initial
capitalization of the servicing is recorded as an addition to
Mortgage servicing rights, net in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets and has a direct impact on Gain on sale of mortgage
loans, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

MSRs are routinely evaluated for impairment, but at least on a
quarterly basis. Valuation changes in the MSRs are recognized in
the Consolidated Statements of Income in Amortization and
valuation adjustments related to mortgage servicing rights, net
and the carrying value of the MSRs is adjusted through a
valuation allowance in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair
value is estimated based upon estimates of expected future cash
flows considering prepayment estimates (developed using a model
described below), the Company s historical prepayment
rates, portfolio characteristics, interest rates based on
interest rate yield curves, implied volatility and other
economic factors. The model to forecast prepayment rates used in
the development of

112

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

expected future cash flows is based on historical observations
of prepayment behavior in similar periods, comparing current
mortgage interest rates to the mortgage interest rates in the
Company s servicing portfolio, and incorporates loan
characteristics (e.g., loan type and note rate) and factors such
as recent prepayment experience, previous refinance
opportunities and estimated levels of home equity. The loans
underlying the MSRs are stratified into note rate pools based on
certain risk characteristics including product type and rate.
Fixed-rate loans are stratified into interest rate bands of less
than 6%, 6-6.5% and greater than 6.5%. Variable-rate loans are
stratified into adjustable-rate mortgage, hybrid adjustable-rate
mortgage and home equity line of credit products. The Company
also obtains quarterly estimates of the value of each stratum of
MSRs from an independent third party and considers these
independent valuations in its evaluation of potential impairment
of MSRs. Management periodically reviews the various strata to
determine whether the value of the impaired MSRs in a given
stratum is likely to recover. If the value is not expected to
recover with a 200 basis point increase in rates, the
impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary. If
other-than-temporary impairment is indicated, MSRs are written
off directly with a corresponding decrease to the valuation
allowance and cannot be subsequently recovered. Recovery of the
valuation allowance resulting from a temporary impairment is
recorded if the fair value of the stratum increases, but is
limited to the cost-basis of a given stratum.

The Company amortizes MSRs based upon the ratio of the current
month net servicing income (estimated at the beginning of the
month) to the expected net servicing income over the life of the
servicing portfolio. The amortization rate is applied to the
gross book value of the MSRs to determine the amortization
expense.

Investment
    Securities   

The Company s Investment securities totaled
$41 million and $46 million as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively, and consisted of its retained
interests in securitizations. Management determines the
appropriate classification of its investments at the time
acquired. The retained interests from the Company s
securitizations of residential mortgage loans, with the
exception of MSRs (the accounting for which is described above
under  Mortgage Servicing Rights ), are classified as
available-for-sale or trading securities. Gains or losses
relating to the assets securitized are allocated between such
assets and the retained interests based on their relative fair
values on the date of sale. The Company evaluates its investment
securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly
basis. Other-than-temporary impairment is recorded within Other
income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company
estimates the fair value of retained interests based upon the
present value of expected future cash flows, which is subject to
prepayment risks, expected credit losses and interest rate risks
of the sold financial assets. See Note 10,  Mortgage
Loan Securitizations  for more information regarding these
retained interests.

Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses reported net of income taxes as a
separate component of Stockholders  equity. Trading
securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and
losses reported in Other income in the Consolidated Statements
of Income. All realized gains and losses are determined on a
specific identification basis and are recorded within Other
income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Property, Plant and
    Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment (including leasehold improvements)
are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation, recorded as a component of Other
depreciation and amortization in the Consolidated Statements of
Income, is computed utilizing the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the related assets. Amortization of
leasehold improvements, also recorded as a component of Other
depreciation and amortization, is computed utilizing the
straight-line method over the estimated benefit period of the
related assets or the lease term, if shorter. Estimated useful
lives are 30 years for the Company s building,
3 years for capitalized software, and range from 3 to
20 years for leasehold improvements and 3 to 7 years
for furniture, fixtures and equipment.

113

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company capitalizes internal software development costs
during the application development stage. The costs capitalized
by the Company relate to external direct costs of materials and
services and employee costs related to the time spent on the
project during the capitalization period. Capitalized software
costs are evaluated for impairment annually or when changing
circumstances indicate that amounts capitalized may be impaired.
Impaired items are written down to their estimated fair values
at the date of evaluation.

Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets   

In accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets 
( SFAS No. 142 ), the Company assesses the
carrying value of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if
circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The Company
assesses goodwill for such impairment by comparing the carrying
value of its reporting units to their fair value. The
Company s reporting units are First Fleet Corporation
( First Fleet ), the Fleet Management Services segment
excluding First Fleet, PHH Home Loans, LLC (as defined in
Note 3,  Spin-Off from Cendant ), the Mortgage
Production segment excluding PHH Home Loans, LLC and the
Mortgage Servicing segment. When determining the fair value of
its reporting units, the Company utilizes discounted cash flows
and incorporates assumptions that it believes marketplace
participants would utilize. When available and as appropriate,
the Company uses comparative market multiples and other factors
to corroborate the discounted cash flow results.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment and
written down to fair value, as required by
SFAS No. 142.

Customer lists are generally amortized over a
 20-year  period.

Derivative
    Instruments   

The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its overall
strategy to manage its exposure to market risks primarily
associated with fluctuations in interest rates. As a matter of
policy, the Company does not use derivatives for speculative
purposes.

All derivatives are recorded at fair value and included in Other
assets or Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as
hedging instruments and derivatives designated as fair value
hedging instruments are recognized in earnings. Changes in the
fair value of the hedged item in a fair value hedge are recorded
as adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged item and
recognized in earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The changes in the fair values of hedged items and related
derivatives are included in the following line items in the
Consolidated Statements of Income:

Loan-related derivatives and changes in the fair value of MLHS
    are included in Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net; 

Debt-related derivatives and changes in the fair value of the
    debt are included in Interest expense. 

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of
derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments is
recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive
income. The ineffective portion is reported in earnings as a
component of Interest expense. Amounts included in Accumulated
other comprehensive income are reclassified into earnings in the
same period during which the hedged item affects earnings.

The Company uses a combination of derivative instruments to
offset potential adverse changes in the fair value of its MSRs
that could affect reported earnings. As of and for the year
ended December 31, 2003, the derivatives associated with
the MSRs were designated in a fair value hedge relationship
pursuant to SFAS No. 133. As of and for the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the derivatives
associated with the MSRs were freestanding derivatives and were
not designated in a hedge relationship pursuant to
SFAS No. 133. Changes in the fair value of MSR-related
derivatives and changes in the fair value of MSRs are included
in Amortization and valuation adjustments related to mortgage
servicing rights, net.

114

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Impairment or Disposal
    of Long-Lived Assets   

As required by SFAS No. 144, if circumstances indicate
an impairment may have occurred, the Company evaluates the
recoverability of its long-lived assets including amortizing
intangible assets, by comparing the respective carrying values
of the assets to the current and expected future cash flows, on
an undiscounted basis, to be generated from such assets.

Custodial
    Accounts   

The Company has fiduciary responsibility for servicing accounts
related to customer escrow funds and custodial funds due to
investors aggregating approximately $3.1 billion and
$2.8 billion as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. These funds are maintained in segregated bank
accounts, which are not included in the assets and liabilities
of the Company. The Company receives certain benefits from these
deposits, as allowable under federal and state laws and
regulations. Income earned on these escrow accounts is recorded
in Mortgage interest income in the Consolidated Statements of
Income.

2.  
     
     Prior Period Adjustments  

During the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
determined that it was necessary to restate previously issued
financial statements to record adjustments for corrections of
errors resulting from various accounting matters described
below. Prior to the Company s Spin-off from Cendant, the
Company underwent an internal reorganization which required
significant accounting adjustments and allocations, including
the allocation and valuation of the tax attributes to the
Company s post-Spin-off businesses, which previously had
been reported for tax filings prepared as part of the Cendant
consolidated income tax returns. The Company and its outside
advisors, under the direction of the Audit Committee of the
Company s Board of Directors, performed an extensive review
of certain complex accounting adjustments and valuations. Upon
completion of the review by the Company and its outside
advisors, the Company concluded that various matters identified
would require restatement of the Company s prior period
financial statements. Restatement adjustments included
(i) entries which the Company previously believed were
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States, but which were subsequently
determined to be errors and (ii) entries which the Company
had previously concluded were immaterial to the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods.
Additionally, control deficiencies identified in the
Company s internal control over financial reporting
contributed to the occurrence of certain of the errors contained
in its previously issued financial statements.

The Company has restated its financial results for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, all quarters in 2004,
each of the first three quarters in 2005 and prior periods
through an adjustment to Retained earnings at December 31,
2002. The adjustments generally fall into the following
categories: adjustments in connection with (i) accounting
for the allocation of Goodwill and other intangible assets
associated with a 2001 business combination; (ii) exclusion
of mortgage reinsurance premiums within the capitalization of
mortgage servicing rights; (iii) accounting for the revenue
recognition of loans sold to a special purpose entity;
(iv) accounting for derivatives and hedging activities;
(v) the timing of recognition of motor company monies that
impact the Company s basis in leased vehicles and the
depreciation methodologies applied to certain of the
Company s leased vehicles and (vi) other miscellaneous
errors. Additionally, adjustments were also recorded for the tax
effects of the restatement adjustments.

115

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The net impact of the restatement on Net (loss) income for the
nine months ended September 30, 2005 (unaudited), the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and years prior to
December 31, 2003 and the restatement adjustments recorded
directly to Total stockholders  equity accounts are set
forth below:

(1)  
     
    Represents cumulative adjustments to Stockholders  equity
    accounts as of September 30, 2005, other than adjustments
    recognized through the statements of income. 

(2)  
     
    Represents cumulative adjustments to Stockholders  equity
    accounts as of September 30, 2005. 

(3)  
     
    The pre-tax restatement adjustments in this presentation include
    a reduction of pre-tax income of $60 million, which is
    reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as the
    Cumulative effect of accounting change ($35 million, net of
    $25 million of income taxes) which should have been
    reported at the time of the adoption of FIN 46 in 2003. 

116

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The net impact of the restatement on Total stockholders 
equity as of September 30, 2005 (unaudited),
December 31, 2004 and 2003 and periods prior to
December 31, 2003 is set forth below:

The restatement also affected periods prior to the year ended
December 31, 2003. The net impact of the restatement on
such prior periods has been reflected as a reduction to
Stockholders  equity as of December 31, 2002 in the
amount of $219 million, net of tax benefits of
$2 million. The restatement adjustments are more fully
described below:

1. Goodwill and other intangible assets:

The Company discovered errors in the accounting for the
allocation of the purchase price, and therefore, goodwill and
other intangible assets resulting from its 2001 acquisition of
Avis Group Holdings, Inc. ( Avis ). The correction of
these errors caused the goodwill resulting from the 2001
acquisition accounting to be allocated differently to the three
businesses acquired, resulting in: (i) the original
allocation of goodwill associated with Avis  car rental
operations was increased by $52 million; (ii) the
original allocation of goodwill associated with Wright Express
was increased by $141 million; and (iii) the original
allocation of goodwill associated with PHH Vehicle Management
Services Group LLC ( PHH Arval ) (the Company s
Fleet Management Services business) was reduced by
$256 million. The Company s Fleet Management Services
business remained in the PHH ownership structure from the time
of the 2001 acquisition to the present. Wright Express remained
in the PHH ownership structure from the time of the 2001
acquisition until the Company distributed it to Cendant in the
first quarter of 2005, immediately prior to the Company s
Spin-off from Cendant, and is classified as discontinued
operations in the Company s Consolidated Financial
Statements. The Company distributed Avis  car rental

117

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

operations to Cendant immediately following the 2001
acquisition. Additionally, the Company concluded that the Fleet
Management Services business and Wright Express should not have
been combined into a single reporting unit for purposes of
accounting for goodwill under SFAS No. 142. The
Company previously considered the Fleet Management Services
business and Wright Express to be a single reporting unit since
the adoption of SFAS No. 142 and through the time of
Wright Express  distribution to Cendant in the first
quarter of 2005. After correcting the errors related to the
original allocation of goodwill in 2001, the Company adjusted
amortization of goodwill for the restated goodwill balances and
reevaluated goodwill balances for impairment purposes for First
Fleet, the Fleet Management Services segment excluding First
Fleet and Wright Express as separate reporting units. The
Company recorded goodwill impairment charges of
$100 million and $102 million in the fourth quarters
of 2002 and 2003, respectively, for the Fleet Management
Services business resulting in a full write-off of the Fleet
Management Services business  restated Goodwill balance at
December 31, 2003. The goodwill impairment charge
previously recorded in the first quarter of 2005 of
$239 million was reversed.

2. Exclusion of reinsurance premiums from capitalized MSRs:

Prior to the second quarter of 2003, the Company inappropriately
capitalized the estimated future cash flows related to mortgage
reinsurance premiums as part of its MSRs. The Company ceased
capitalizing new mortgage reinsurance premiums in the second
quarter of 2003 and the balance of previously capitalized
mortgage reinsurance premiums was fully amortized as of the end
of 2005. The restatement adjustments correct this accounting
such that the estimated cash flows related to mortgage
reinsurance premiums are not capitalized as part of the MSRs for
periods prior to the second quarter of 2003 and eliminate the
related amortization for all relevant periods.

3. Revenue recognition of loans sold to a special purpose
entity:

The Company corrected the timing of revenue recognition prior to
the adoption of FIN 46 related to loan sales from PHH
Mortgage Corporation ( PHH Mortgage ), a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, to Bishop s Gate, a special
purpose entity consolidated upon the adoption of FIN 46.
Prior to the date of adoption of FIN 46 on July 1,
2003 and the related consolidation of Bishop s Gate, the
Company recorded loan sales to Bishop s Gate at the time of
the sale; however, the gain on sale was deferred until the loans
were sold by Bishop s Gate to third-party investors. The
restatement recognizes the gain on sale at the time of the
Company s sale to Bishop s Gate for the periods prior
to Bishop s Gate s consolidation in 2003. A portion of
the pre-tax impact of the restatement adjustment for 2003, a
reduction of pre-tax income of $60 million, is reflected on
the Consolidated Statements of Income as the Cumulative effect
of accounting change ($35 million, net of $25 million
of income taxes) for the adoption of FIN 46.

4. Accounting for derivatives and hedging activities:

The Company s reevaluation of the application of
SFAS No. 133 hedge accounting to certain financial
instruments used to hedge interest rate risk resulted in the
disallowance of hedge accounting previously used for these
hedging arrangements due to inadequate contemporaneous
documentation and errors in applying certain other requirements
of SFAS No. 133. The restatement corrects the
accounting previously applied by treating the derivatives used
in these hedging arrangements as freestanding derivatives. (See
Note 11,  Derivatives and Risk Management
Activities. )

5. Recognition of motor company monies and depreciation
methodologies:

The restatement corrects the timing of recognition of motor
company monies that impact the basis in the Company s
leased assets and therefore Depreciation on operating leases.
Generally, these monies were previously recorded as adjustments
to the basis in leased vehicles when received and were amortized
over the estimated lease life of the vehicles. The restatement
corrects the accounting previously applied by accruing for the
monies as earned rather than upon receipt. The amounts are now
recognized either: (i) immediately when accrued through a
reduction of Depreciation on operating leases for the portion
related to the time the related vehicles have been in

118

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

service under the lease; or (ii) as a basis adjustment for
leased vehicles for the portion related to the undepreciated
basis in the vehicle to be recognized as a reduction to
Depreciation on operating leases over the remaining estimated
lease life of the vehicle. Additionally, the restatement
corrects the depreciation methodologies applied to certain of
the Company s leased vehicles that did not comply with the
Company s policy to depreciate leased vehicles on a
straight-line basis.

6. Other miscellaneous:

Adjustments were made to recognize the effects of other
miscellaneous errors corrected as part of the restatement.

7. STARS income tax liability:

The Company previously recorded an income tax expense in the
first quarter of 2005 associated with the Spin-Off relating to a
tax liability the Company incurred associated with its
distribution of STARS to Cendant in 2002. The restatement
corrects this accounting treatment by recording the income tax
liability in 2002 as an equity adjustment associated with the
distribution of STARS to Cendant and by reversing the income tax
expense previously recorded in the first quarter of 2005 of
$24 million.

In addition, certain other adjustments were made which have no
net income or equity impact, but restate the classification of
prior period amounts. These reclassifications included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements principally relate to the
items set forth below:

1. Reclassification of Depreciation on operating leases
from a contra revenue account to an expense account:

In previous periods, Depreciation on operating leases was
reported as a contra revenue account in the determination of Net
revenues. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company revised
its Consolidated Statements of Income to report
$1.1 billion of Depreciation on operating leases for both
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, as a component
of Total expenses rather than as a component of Net revenues.
Certain items previously reported in Depreciation on operating
leases such as excess mileage and early lease termination fees,
losses on the sale of vehicles coming off lease and the costs of
lease syndications have been reclassified to various other
revenue and expense line items to conform to the Company s
current period presentation.

2. Reclassification of dealership cost of goods sold from
Other income to Other operating expenses:

In previous periods, both the revenue generated by the
Company s dealership businesses and the associated cost of
goods sold was included in Other income, a component of Net
revenues. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
reclassified dealership cost of goods sold of $62 million
and $56 million for the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2003, respectively, to Other operating expenses.

3. Presentation of cash flow from discontinued operations:

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company revised its
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows to separately disclose the
operating, investing and financing cash flows and the effect of
exchange rate changes attributable to its discontinued
operations. In its prior filings, the Company previously
reported cash flows of discontinued operations on a combined
basis as a single amount, which represented cash flows to and
from its discontinued operations. The effect of this
reclassification for the year ended December 31, 2004 was a
$177 million increase in both cash flows from operating
activities of continuing operations and total cash flows from
continuing operations. The effect of this reclassification for
the year ended December 31, 2003 was a $71 million
decrease in both cash flows from operating activities of
continuing operations and total cash flows from continuing
operations.

119

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

4. Presentation of cash flow activity related to MSRs:

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company revised the
presentation in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow related
to the capitalization of originated MSRs. The restatement
adjustments correct the presentation such that $50 million
and $51 million of purchases of MSRs for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are presented in
cash flows from investing activities and $448 million and
$939 million of the capitalization of originated MSRs for
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively,
are presented in cash flows from operating activities.

5. Other miscellaneous reclassifications:

As disclosed above, certain reclassifications have been made to
prior period amounts to conform to the current period
presentation.

The following tables set forth the effects of the restatement
adjustments as discussed above on the Consolidated Statements of
Income for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The
 As Previously Reported  columns in the following
tables reflect the financial statements reported in the
Company s Current Report filed on
Form  8-K  on
September 7, 2005, which updated its Consolidated Financial
Statements and related disclosures for each of the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 included in its Annual
Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2004 in order to (i) reflect a
reclassification of its former relocation and fuel card
businesses distributed to Cendant as discontinued operations in
accordance with SFAS No. 144; (ii) reflect
Cendant s contribution of STARS, an entity previously under
common control, to the Company and add the financial position
and results of operations of STARS into its Consolidated
Financial Statements in continuing operations for all periods
presented and accounted for as a transfer of net assets between
entities under common control; and (iii) certain other
modifications made to the Company s financial statement
presentation in conjunction with the changes in the composition
of the businesses included in continuing operations. For the
year ended December 31, 2004, the Company s
restatement of its financial statements resulted in increases to
net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per
share of $18 million, $0.34 and $0.33, respectively. For
the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company s
restatement of its financial statements resulted in decreases to
net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per
share of $90 million, $1.71 and $1.69, respectively.

120

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

121

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

122

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following table sets forth the effects of the restatement
adjustments discussed above on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31, 2004:

The Company s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were also restated
for the adjustments discussed above. The restatement adjustments
(decreased) increased cash flows from operating activities,
investing activities and financing activities of continuing
operations by $(315) million, $487 million and
$5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and
$(1,047) million, $995 million and $(19) million
for the year ended December 31, 2003, respectively.

123

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

3.  
     
     Spin-Off from Cendant  

On January 31, 2005, each holder of Cendant common stock
received one share of PHH common stock for every twenty shares
of Cendant common stock held on January 19, 2005, the
record date for the distribution. The Spin-Off was effective on
February 1, 2005.

In connection with the Spin-Off, PHH and Cendant s real
estate services division became parties to a mortgage venture,
PHH Home Loans, LLC (the  Mortgage Venture ).
Effective July 31, 2006, Cendant completed the spin-off of
its real estate services division (the  Realogy
Spin-Off ) into an independent publicly traded company,
Realogy Corporation (NYSE: H) ( Realogy ). (See
Note 23,  Related Party Transactions  and
Note 27,  Subsequent Events. ) The Mortgage
Venture originates and sells mortgage loans sourced through
Realogy s owned real estate brokerage business, NRT
Incorporated ( NRT ), its owned relocation business,
Cartus Corporation (formerly known as Cendant Mobility Services
Corporation ( Cendant Mobility )) ( Cartus )
and its owned settlement services business, Title Research
Group, LLC (formerly known as Cendant Settlement Services Group,
Inc.) ( TRG ). The Mortgage Venture commenced
operations in October 2005. The Company contributed assets and
transferred employees that have historically supported
originations from NRT and Cartus to the Mortgage Venture in
October 2005. PHH Broker Partner Corporation ( PHH Broker
Partner ), a wholly owned subsidiary of PHH, owns 50.1% of
the Mortgage Venture, and Realogy Real Estate Services Venture
Partner, Inc. ( Realogy Venture Partner ), a wholly
owned subsidiary of Realogy, owns the remaining 49.9%. The
Mortgage Venture is consolidated within PHH s Consolidated
Financial Statements, and Realogy Venture Partner s
interest in the Mortgage Venture is presented as Minority
interest in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Statement of
Income. Through the Mortgage Venture, PHH is the exclusive
recommended provider of mortgage loans by NRT, Cartus and TRG to
(i) the independent sales associates affiliated with
Realogy Services Group LLC and Realogy Venture Partner
(collectively, the  Realogy Entities ) (excluding the
independent sales associates of any Realogy franchisee acting in
such capacity), (ii) all customers of the Realogy Entities
(excluding Realogy franchisees or any employee or independent
sales associate thereof acting in such capacity) and
(iii) all
 U.S.-based  employees of
Cendant.

Also in connection with the Spin-Off, PHH entered into a tax
sharing agreement with Cendant, which is more fully described in
Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies,  and the
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Operating
Agreement for PHH Home Loans, LLC, dated as of January 31,
2005 and amended as of May 12, 2005 (the  Mortgage
Venture Operating Agreement ), a transition services
agreement (the  Transition Services Agreement ) and
certain other agreements which are more fully described in
Note 23,  Related Party Transactions. 

During 2005, the Company recognized Spin-Off related expenses of
$41 million, consisting of a charge of $37 million
resulting from the prepayment of debt, more fully described in
Note 15,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements,  and a
charge of $4 million associated with the conversion of
certain Cendant stock options held by PHH employees to PHH stock
options, more fully described in Note 21,  Stock-Based
Compensation.  See Note 17,  Income Taxes, 
for additional tax-related charges related to the Spin-Off.

4.  
     
     Acquisitions  

Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations
were recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of their
respective acquisition dates based upon their estimated fair
values at such dates. The results of operations of businesses
acquired by the Company have been included in the Consolidated
Statements of Income since their respective dates of
acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated
fair values of the underlying assets acquired and liabilities
assumed was allocated to goodwill.

First Fleet.  During 2004, the Company acquired First
Fleet, a national provider of fleet management services to
companies that maintain private truck fleets, for approximately
$26 million, net of cash acquired of $10 million and
including $4 million of contingent consideration that was
paid in the first quarter of 2005. As of

124

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

December 31, 2004, the Company recorded goodwill of
$24 million related to this acquisition, none of which is
deductible for income tax purposes. This goodwill was assigned
to the Fleet Management Services segment. In the fourth quarter
of 2005, the Company recorded $2 million of goodwill
related to this acquisition due to a contingent payment of
$2 million paid in the first quarter of 2006.

Other.  The Company participates in acquisitions made by
NRT by acquiring the mortgage operations of the real estate
brokerage firms acquired by NRT. During 2005, the Company
completed an acquisition for $3 million in cash, which
resulted in $3 million of goodwill (based on the
preliminary allocation of the purchase price), all of which was
assigned to the Mortgage Production segment. During 2004, the
Company completed two acquisitions for $5 million in cash,
which resulted in $5 million of goodwill, all of which was
assigned to the Mortgage Production segment. During 2003, the
Company completed certain acquisitions for aggregate
consideration of $2 million in cash. The goodwill resulting
from the acquisitions completed in 2003 aggregated
$2 million, all of which was assigned to the Mortgage
Production segment.

5.  
     
     Earnings Per Share  

Basic earnings per share was computed by dividing net earnings
during the period by the weighted-average number of shares
outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share was
computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted-average number
of shares outstanding, assuming all potentially dilutive common
shares were issued. The number of weighted-average shares
outstanding for each of the three years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 reflects a 52,684-for-one stock split
effected January 28, 2005, in connection with and in order
to consummate the Spin-Off (see Note 19,
 Stock-Related Matters ). The effect of potentially
dilutive common shares related to Cendant s stock options
and restricted stock units that were exchanged for the
Company s stock options and restricted stock units at the
time of the Spin-Off were included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share for all periods prior to the Spin-Off.

The following table summarizes the basic and diluted earnings
per share calculations for the periods indicated:

6.  
     
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  

In connection with the Spin-Off, there was a change to
Cendant s reporting unit structure, which included the
Company s Mortgage Services business that resulted in the
reallocation of goodwill from the Company to other Cendant
entities. The Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of
$102 million during the year ended December 31, 2003
for the Fleet Management Services segment resulting from its
analysis of the fair market value of the Fleet Management
Services business in relation to the carrying value of its net
assets. The

125

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

calculation of fair market value, derived from a projection of
future cash flows for this business, was negatively impacted by
the declining interest rate environment during the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2003 due to the impact that declining
interest rates have on revenue and income from the
business  lease portfolio as new leases originated at lower
rates replace higher rate leases.

Intangible assets consisted of:

The following table summarizes the activity associated with
goodwill, by segment, during the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004:

(1)  
     
    Relates to the acquisition of First Fleet. See Note 4,
     Acquisitions.  

(2)  
     
    Relates to the acquisitions of the mortgage operations of real
    estate brokerage firms by NRT. See Note 4,
     Acquisitions.  

(3)  
     
    Relates to the transfer of a subsidiary to Cendant. See
    Note 23,  Related Party Transactions.  

126

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Amortization expense included within Other depreciation and
amortization relating to all intangible assets excluding MSRs
(see Note 8,  Mortgage Servicing Rights ) was as
follows:

Based on the Company s amortizable intangible assets as of
December 31, 2005 (excluding MSRs), the Company expects the
related amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal
years to approximate $4 million, $4 million,
$3 million, $2 million and $2 million,
respectively.

7.  
     
     Mortgage Loans Held for Sale  

Mortgage loans held for sale, net consisted of:

At December 31, 2005, the Company pledged $1.6 billion
of Mortgage loans held for sale, net as collateral in
asset-backed debt arrangements.

8.  
     
     Mortgage Servicing Rights  

The activity in the Company s loan servicing portfolio
associated with its capitalized MSRs consisted of:

127

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The activity in the Company s capitalized MSRs consisted of:

As of December 31, 2005, the Company s MSRs had a
weighted-average life of approximately 4.7 years. The
estimated fair values of the MSRs were $1.9 billion and
$1.6 billion as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Approximately 70% of the MSRs associated with the
loan servicing portfolio as of December 31, 2005 were
restricted from sale without prior approval from the
Company s private label clients or investors.

The following summarizes certain information regarding the
initial and ending capitalization rates of the Company s
MSRs:

128

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The net impact to the Consolidated Statements of Income
resulting from amortization of the Company s MSRs and
changes in the fair value of the Company s MSRs and related
derivatives was as follows:

Based upon the composition of the portfolio as of
December 31, 2005, the Company expects MSRs amortization
expense for the five succeeding fiscal years to approximate
$389 million, $311 million, $247 million,
$200 million and $162 million, respectively. This
projection was developed using the assumptions made by the
Company in its December 31, 2005 valuation of the MSRs. The
assumptions underlying this projection may be affected as market
conditions and portfolio composition and behavior change, which
could cause projected amortization expense to change over time.
Therefore, these estimates may change in a manner and amount not
presently determinable by management.

9.  
     
     Loan Servicing Portfolio  

The following tables summarize certain information regarding the
Company s mortgage loan servicing portfolio for the periods
indicated. Unless otherwise noted, the information presented
includes both loans held for sale and loans subserviced for
others.

Portfolio Activity   

129

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Portfolio Composition   

Portfolio Delinquency(1)(2)   

(1)  
     
    Excludes certain home equity loans subserviced for others. These
    amounts were approximately $2.5 billion, $2.7 billion
    and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. 

(2)  
     
    Represents the loan servicing portfolio delinquencies as a
    percentage of the total number of loans and the total unpaid
    balance of the portfolio. 

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company purchased the
loan servicing portfolio of CUNA Mutual Mortgage Corporation
( CUNA ) and assumed its servicing and subservicing
contracts. The aggregate loan servicing portfolio purchased from
CUNA was $9.7 billion, including a $2.9 billion
subserviced portfolio. This purchase is included within
additions in the Portfolio Activity table presented above.

130

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

10.  
     
     Mortgage Loan Securitizations  

The Company sells residential mortgage loans in securitization
transactions typically retaining one or more of the following:
servicing rights, interest-only strips, principal-only strips
and/or subordinated interests. The Company did not retain any
interests from securitizations in 2005, other than MSRs. Key
economic assumptions used during 2005, 2004 and 2003 to measure
the fair value of the Company s retained interests in
mortgage loans at the time of the securitization were as follows:

Key economic assumptions used in subsequently measuring the fair
value of the Company s retained interests in securitized
mortgage loans at December 31, 2005 and the effect on the
fair value of those interests from adverse changes in those
assumptions were as follows:

These sensitivities are hypothetical and presented for
illustrative purposes only. Changes in fair value based on a 10%
variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated
because the relationship of the change in assumption to the
change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a
variation in a particular assumption is calculated without
changing any other assumption; in reality, changes in one
assumption may result in changes in another, which may magnify
or counteract the sensitivities. Further, this analysis does not
assume any impact resulting from management s intervention
to mitigate these variations.

131

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following table presents information about delinquencies and
components of securitized residential mortgage loans for which
the Company has retained interests (except for MSRs) as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2005:

Principal    

Total    
       
      Amount 60    

Average    

Principal    
       
      Days or More    
       
      Net Credit    
       
      Principal    

Amount    
       
      Past Due(1)    
       
      Losses    
       
      Balance    

(In millions)    

Residential mortgage loans(2)

$ 
     135 

$ 
     10 

$ 
     3 

$ 
     164 

(1)  
     
    Amounts are based on total securitized assets at
    December 31, 2005. 

(2)  
     
    Excludes securitized mortgage loans that the Company continues
    to service but to which it has no other continuing involvement. 

The following table sets forth information regarding cash flows
relating to the Company s loan sales.

(1)  
     
    Includes sales to Bishop s Gate prior to its consolidation
    on July 1, 2003. See Note 15,  Debt and Borrowing
    Arrangements.  

(2)  
     
    Excludes ancillary servicing revenue. 

(3)  
     
    Represents cash flows received on retained interests other than
    servicing fees. 

During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recognized pre-tax gains
of $300 million, $405 million and $1,047 million,
respectively, related to the securitization of residential
mortgage loans which are recorded as Gain on sale of mortgage
loans, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

The Company has made representations and warranties customary
for securitization transactions, including eligibility
characteristics of the mortgage loans and servicing
responsibilities, in connection with the securitization of these
assets. See Note 18,  Commitments and
Contingencies. 

11.  
     
     Derivatives and Risk Management Activities  

Market Risk   

The Company s principal market exposure is to interest rate
risk, specifically long-term U.S. Treasury and mortgage
interest rates due to their impact on mortgage-related assets
and commitments. The Company also has exposure to the London
Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) and commercial paper
interest rates due to their impact on variable-rate borrowings,
other interest rate sensitive liabilities and net investment in
floating-rate lease assets. The Company uses various financial
instruments, including swap contracts, forward delivery
commitments, futures and options contracts to manage and reduce
this risk.

132

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following is a description of the Company s risk
management policies related to interest rate lock commitments
( IRLCs ), MLHS, MSRs and debt:

Interest Rate Lock Commitments.  IRLCs represent an
agreement to extend credit to a mortgage loan applicant whereby
the interest rate on the loan is set prior to funding. The loan
commitment binds the Company (subject to the loan approval
process) to lend funds to a potential borrower at the specified
rate, regardless of whether interest rates have changed between
the commitment date and the loan funding date. The
Company s loan commitments generally range between 30 and
90 days; however, the borrower is not obligated to obtain
the loan. As such, the Company s outstanding IRLCs are
subject to interest rate risk and related price risk during the
period from the IRLC through the loan funding date or expiration
date. In addition, the Company is subject to fallout risk, which
is the risk that an approved borrower will choose not to close
on the loan. The Company uses a combination of forward delivery
commitments and option contracts to manage these risks. The
Company considers historical
 commitment-to -closing
ratios to estimate the quantity of mortgage loans that will fund
within the terms of the IRLCs.

IRLCs are defined as derivative instruments under
SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 149.
Because IRLCs are considered derivatives, the associated risk
management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under
SFAS No. 133. Therefore, the IRLCs and the related
derivative instruments are considered freestanding derivatives
and are classified as Other assets or Other liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in their fair values
recorded as a component of Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net
in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Mortgage Loans Held for Sale.  The Company is subject to
interest rate and price risk on its MLHS from the loan funding
date until the date the loan is sold into the secondary market.
The Company uses mortgage forward delivery commitments to hedge
these risks. These forward delivery commitments fix the forward
sales price that will be realized in the secondary market and
thereby reduce the interest rate and price risk to the Company.
Such forward delivery commitments are designated and classified
as fair value hedges to the extent they qualify for hedge
accounting under SFAS No. 133. Forward delivery
commitments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
considered freestanding derivatives. The forward delivery
commitments are included in Other assets or Other liabilities in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of
all forward delivery commitments are recorded as a component of
Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net in the Consolidated
Statements of Income. Changes in the fair value of MLHS are
recorded as a component of Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net
to the extent they qualify for hedge accounting under
SFAS No. 133. Changes in the fair value of MLHS are
not recorded to the extent the hedge relationship is deemed to
be ineffective under SFAS No. 133.

The Company uses the following instruments in its risk
management activities related to its IRLCs and MLHS:

Forward loan sales commitments:  represent obligations to
    sell mortgage-backed securities at specified prices in the
    future. The value of these instruments increase as mortgage
    rates rise. 

Treasury futures:  represent obligations to purchase or
    deliver U.S. Treasury securities ( Treasuries )
    at specified prices in the future. Treasury futures increase in
    value as the interest rate on the underlying Treasury declines. 

Options on Treasuries:  represent rights to buy or sell
    Treasuries at specified prices in the future. 

133

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following table provides a summary of the changes in the
fair values of IRLCs, MLHS and the related derivatives:

(1)  
     
    Amount includes $11 million and $8 million of
    ineffectiveness recognized on hedges of MLHS during the years
    ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, due to the
    application of SFAS No. 133. There was no
    ineffectiveness recognized on hedges of MLHS during the year
    ended December 31, 2003. In accordance with
    SFAS No. 133, the change in the
     mark-to -market of MLHS
    is only recorded to the extent the related derivatives are
    considered hedge effective. The ineffective portion of
    designated derivatives represents the change in the fair value
    of derivatives for which there were no corresponding changes in
    the value of the loans that did not qualify for hedge accounting
    under SFAS No. 133. 

(2)  
     
    During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
    Company recognized $(19) million and $(14) million of
    hedge ineffectiveness on derivatives designated as hedges of
    MLHS that qualified for hedge accounting under
    SFAS No. 133. 

Mortgage Servicing Rights.  The Company s MSRs are
subject to substantial interest rate risk as the mortgage notes
underlying the MSRs permit the borrowers to prepay the loans.
Therefore, the value of the MSRs tends to diminish in periods of
declining interest rates (as prepayments increase) and increase
in periods of rising interest rates (as prepayments decrease).
The Company uses a combination of derivative instruments to
offset potential adverse changes in the fair value of its MSRs
that could affect reported earnings. The gain or loss on
derivatives will react in the opposite direction of the MSRs
valuation. The MSRs derivatives generally increase in value as
interest rates decline and decrease in value as interest rates
rise. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, the
derivatives associated with the MSRs were designated in a fair
value hedge relationship pursuant to SFAS No. 133. As
of and for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
derivatives associated with the MSRs were freestanding
derivatives and were not designated in a hedge relationship
pursuant to SFAS No. 133. These derivatives are
classified as Other assets or Other liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in their fair values
recorded as a component of Amortization and valuation
adjustments related to mortgage servicing rights, net in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

The Company uses the following instruments in its risk
management activities related to its MSRs:

Interest rate swap contracts:  represent agreements to
    exchange interest rate payments on underlying notional amounts.
    In the hedge of the Company s MSRs, the Company generally
    receives the fixed rate and pays the floating rate. Such
    contracts increase in value as interest rates decline. 

Interest rate futures contracts:  represent obligations to
    purchase or deliver financial instruments at a future date based
    upon underlying debt securities (such as Treasuries or
    Government National Mortgage Association ( Ginnie
    Mae ) mortgage-backed securities). Interest rate futures
    contracts increase in value as the interest rate on the
    underlying instrument declines. 

134

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Interest rate forward contracts:  represent obligations to
    purchase or deliver financial instruments to specific
    counterparties at future dates based upon underlying debt
    securities. Interest rate forward contracts increase in value as
    the interest rate on the underlying instrument declines. 

Mortgage forward contracts:  represent obligations to buy
    mortgage-backed securities at a specified price in the future.
    Sometimes referred to as  to be announced  securities
    ( TBAs ). Mortgage forward contracts increase in value
    as interest rates decline. 

Options on forward contracts:  represent rights to buy or
    sell the underlying financial instruments such as
    mortgage-backed securities. 

Options on futures contracts:  represent rights to buy or
    sell the underlying financial instruments such as
    mortgage-backed securities, generally through an exchange. 

Options on swap contracts:  represent rights to enter into
    predetermined interest rate swaps at a future date (sometimes
    referred to as  swaptions ). In a receiver swaption,
    the fixed rate is received and the floating rate is paid upon
    exercise of the option. Receiver swaptions generally increase in
    value as rates fall. Conversely, in a payor swaption, the fixed
    rate is paid and the floating rate is received upon the exercise
    of the option. Payor swaptions generally increase in value as
    rates rise. 

Principal-only swaps:  represent agreements to exchange
    the principal amount of underlying securities and are
    economically similar to purchasing principal-only securities.
    Principal-only swaps increase in value as interest rates decline. 

The net activity in the Company s derivatives related to
MSRs consisted of:

(1)  
     
    The net balance represents the gross asset of $79 million
    (recorded with Other assets in the accompanying Consolidated
    Balance Sheet) net of the gross liability of $19 million
    (recorded within Other liabilities in the accompanying
    Consolidated Balance Sheet). 

(2)  
     
    The net balance represents the gross asset of $316 million
    (recorded within Other assets) net of the gross liability of
    $231 million (recorded within Other liabilities). 

(3)  
     
    The net balance represents an asset of $385 million. 

(4)  
     
    The net balance represents the gross asset of $73 million
    (recorded within Other assets in the accompanying Consolidated
    Balance Sheet) net of the gross liability of $29 million
    (recorded within Other liabilities in the accompanying
    Consolidated Balance Sheet). 

Debt.  The Company uses various hedging strategies and
derivative financial instruments to create a desired mix of
fixed- and floating-rate assets and liabilities. Derivative
instruments used in these hedging strategies include swaps,
interest rate caps and instruments with purchased option
features. To more closely match the characteristics of the
related assets, including the Company s net investment in
floating-rate lease assets, the Company either issues
floating-rate debt or fixed-rate debt, which may be swapped to
floating LIBOR-based rates. The derivatives used to manage the
risk associated with the Company s fixed-rate debt include
instruments

135

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

that were designated as fair value hedges as well as instruments
that were not designated as fair value hedges. The terms of the
derivatives that were designated as fair value hedges match
those of the underlying hedged debt resulting in no net impact
on the Company s results of operations during the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, except to create
the accrual of interest expense at variable rates. The Company
recognized losses of $4 million, $5 million and
$5 million related to instruments which do not qualify for
hedge accounting treatment pursuant to SFAS No. 133
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, which were included in Fleet interest expense and
Mortgage interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of
Income. During 2003, the Company terminated certain of its fair
value hedges, which resulted in cash gains of $24 million.
Such gains were deferred and were being recognized over future
periods as a component of interest expense. On February 9,
2005, the Company prepaid $443 million aggregate principal
amount of its outstanding senior notes (see Note 15,
 Debt and Borrowing Arrangements ). As a result, the
unamortized balance of this deferred swap gain was recognized as
a reduction to the prepayment charge incurred in connection with
the debt prepayment, which was included in Spin-Off related
expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income
for the year ended December 31, 2005. Amortization of this
deferred swap gain recorded during the year ended
December 31, 2005 prior to the prepayment was not
significant. During the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2003, the Company recorded $5 million and
$4 million of amortization related to this deferred swap
gain, respectively.

From time to time, the Company uses derivatives that convert
floating cash flows to fixed cash flows to manage the risk
associated with its floating-rate debt and net investment in
floating-rate lease assets. Such derivatives may include
freestanding derivatives and derivatives designated as cash flow
hedges. The amount of gains or losses excluded from Accumulated
other comprehensive income and recorded directly to earnings
resulting from ineffectiveness or from excluding a component of
the derivatives  gain or loss from the effectiveness
calculation for cash flow hedges during the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was not significant. The
amount of gains or losses the Company expects to reclassify from
Accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the
next twelve months is not significant. The Company recognized a
net loss of $2 million and a net gain of $1 million
related to instruments that were not designated as cash flow
hedges for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, as a component of Mortgage interest expense and
Fleet interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The total net gain recorded in the Consolidated Statement of
Income related to derivatives that convert floating cash flows
to fixed cash flows but were not designated as cash flow hedges
for the year ended December 31, 2003 was not significant.

Credit Risk and
    Exposure   

The Company originates loans in all 50 states and the
District of Columbia. Concentrations of credit risk are
considered to exist when there are amounts loaned to multiple
borrowers with similar characteristics, which could cause their
ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly impacted
by economic or other conditions. California was the only state
that represented more than 10% of the unpaid principal balance
in the Company s loan servicing portfolio, accounting for
approximately 11% of the balance as of December 31, 2005.
For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 45% of
loans originated by the Company were derived from Realogy s
owned real estate brokerage business, NRT, and relocation
business, Cartus or its franchisees. In addition, approximately
24% of the Company s loan originations were derived from
one private label partner during the year ended
December 31, 2005.

The Company is exposed to commercial credit risk for its clients
under the lease and service agreements for PHH Arval. The
Company manages such risk through an evaluation of the financial
position and creditworthiness of the client, which is performed
on at least an annual basis. The lease agreements allow PHH
Arval to refuse any additional orders; however, PHH Arval would
remain obligated for all units under contract at that time. The
service agreements can generally be terminated upon 30 days
written notice. PHH Arval has no significant client
concentrations as no client represents more than 5% of the Net
revenues of the business for the year ended

136

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

December 31, 2005. PHH Arval s historical net losses
as a percentage of Net investment in fleet leases have not
exceeded 0.07% in any of the last three years.

The Company is exposed to counterparty credit risk in the event
of non-performance by counterparties to various agreements and
sales transactions. The Company manages such risk by evaluating
the financial position and creditworthiness of such
counterparties and/or requiring collateral, typically cash, in
instances in which financing is provided. The Company mitigates
counterparty credit risk associated with its derivative
contracts by monitoring the amount for which it is at risk with
each counterparty to such contracts, requiring collateral
posting, typically cash, above established credit limits,
periodically evaluating counterparty creditworthiness and
financial position, and where possible, dispersing the risk
among multiple counterparties.

As of December 31, 2005, there were no significant
concentrations of credit risk with any individual counterparty
or groups of counterparties. Concentrations of credit risk
associated with receivables are considered minimal due to the
Company s diverse customer base. With the exception of the
financing provided to customers of its mortgage business, the
Company does not generally require collateral or other security
to support credit sales.

12.  
     
     Vehicle Leasing Activities  

The components of Net investment in fleet leases were as follows:

137

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

At December 31, 2005, future minimum lease payments to be
received on the Company s operating and direct financing
leases were as follows:

(1)  
     
    Amounts included for the interest component of the future
    minimum lease payments are based on the interest rate in effect
    at the inception of each lease. Contingent rentals from
    operating leases were $16 million, $7 million and
    $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
    and 2003, respectively. Contingent rentals from direct financing
    leases were not significant for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 

The future minimum lease payments disclosed above include the
monthly payments for the unexpired portion of the minimum lease
term, which is twelve months under the Company s open-end
lease agreements, and the residual values guaranteed by the
lessees during the minimum lease term. These leases may be
continued after the minimum lease term at the lessee s
election.

13.  
     
     Property, Plant and Equipment, net  

Property, plant and equipment, net consisted of:

138

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

14.  
     
     Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses  

Accounts payable and accrued expenses consisted of:

15.  
     
     Debt and Borrowing Arrangements  

The following tables summarize the components of the
Company s indebtedness at December 31, 2005 and 2004:

139

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Asset-Backed
Debt  

Vehicle Management Asset-Backed Debt   

Vehicle management asset-backed debt primarily represents
floating-rate debt issued under a domestic financing facility,
Chesapeake Funding LLC ( Chesapeake ), the
Company s wholly owned subsidiary that provides for the
issuance of variable-rate term notes and variable funding notes.
As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, variable-rate term notes
and variable funding notes outstanding under this arrangement
aggregated $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. As
of December 31, 2005 and 2004, subordinated notes issued by
Terrapin Funding LLC ( Terrapin ), a consolidated
entity, aggregated $367 million and $370 million,
respectively. Variable-rate term notes, variable funding notes
and the subordinated notes were issued to support the
acquisition of vehicles used by the Fleet Management Services
segment s leasing operations. The debt issued was
collateralized by approximately $3.9 billion of leased
vehicles and related assets, primarily included in Net
investment in fleet leases in the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005, which are not
available to pay the Company s general obligations. The
titles to all the vehicles collateralizing the debt issued by
Chesapeake are held in a bankruptcy remote trust, and the
Company acts as a servicer of all such leases. The bankruptcy
remote trust also acts as lessor under both operating and direct
financing lease agreements. The holders of the notes receive
cash flows from lease and other related receivables, as well as
receipts from the sale of vehicles. Repayments are required on
the notes as cash inflows are received relating to the
securitized vehicle leases and related assets, but no later than
the final maturity dates specified in the indentures of between
August 2008 and April 2018 for the variable-rate notes and
variable funding notes, and between August 2030 and August 2037
for the subordinated notes. The weighted-average interest rate
of vehicle management asset-backed debt arrangements was 4.8%
and 2.8% as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

On July 15, 2005, Chesapeake entered into the
Series 2005-1 Indenture Supplement (the
 Supplement ) to the Base Indenture dated
June 30, 1999, as amended, pursuant to which Chesapeake
issued $100 million of variable funding notes (the
 Notes ). On August 8, 2005, Chesapeake amended
the Supplement (the  Amended Supplement ) to permit
the issuance of up to an additional $600 million of Notes,
bringing the total capacity of the Amended Supplement to
$700 million. This additional asset-backed debt capacity
was used to support the acquisition of vehicles used in PHH
Arval s fleet leasing operations and to retire
$120 million of outstanding term notes. The parties to the
Amended Supplement include Chesapeake as issuer, PHH Arval as
administrator, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent
and indenture trustee, and certain other commercial paper
conduit purchasers, funding agents and banks. The Amended
Supplement was scheduled to expire on July 14, 2006. As
discussed in Note 27,  Subsequent Events,  on
March 7, 2006, the Company redeemed all of the outstanding
Notes under the Amended Supplement.

As of December 31, 2005, the total capacity under vehicle
management asset-backed debt arrangements was approximately
$3.4 billion, and the Company had no unused capacity
available.

Mortgage Warehouse Asset-Backed Debt   

Bishop s Gate is a consolidated bankruptcy remote SPE that
is utilized to warehouse mortgage loans originated by the
Company prior to their sale into the secondary market. As of
December 31, 2005, term notes, subordinated notes and
commercial paper issued by Bishop s Gate aggregated
$1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2004, term notes and
subordinated notes issued by Bishop s Gate aggregated
$1.3 billion. The debt issued by Bishop s Gate was
collateralized by approximately $1.0 billion of underlying
mortgage loans and related assets, primarily recorded in
Mortgage loans held for sale, net in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005. The
activities of Bishop s Gate are limited to
(i) purchasing mortgage loans from the Company s
mortgage subsidiary, (ii) issuing commercial paper, senior
term notes, subordinated variable-rate certificates and/or
borrowing under a liquidity agreement to effect such purchases,
(iii) entering into interest rate swaps to hedge interest
rate risk and certain non-credit-related market risk on the
purchased mortgage loans, (iv) selling and securitizing the
acquired mortgage loans to third parties and (v) engaging
in certain related

140

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

transactions. The debt issued by Bishop s Gate primarily
represents floating-rate instruments and matures between January
2006 and November 2008. The weighted-average interest rate on
debt issued by Bishop s Gate as of December 31, 2005
and 2004 was 4.8% and 2.8%, respectively. See Note 27,
 Subsequent Events  for a discussion of modifications
made to Bishop s Gate s mortgage warehouse
asset-backed debt arrangements after December 31, 2005.

The Company also maintains a committed mortgage repurchase
facility (the  Mortgage Repurchase Facility ) that is
used to finance mortgage loans originated by PHH Mortgage, a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company generally
uses this facility to supplement the capacity of Bishop s
Gate and unsecured borrowings used to fund the Company s
mortgage warehouse needs. On June 30, 2005, the Company
amended the Mortgage Repurchase Facility by executing the Fourth
Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan Repurchase and Servicing
Agreement (the  Amended Mortgage Repurchase Facility
Agreement ) among Sheffield Receivables Corporation, as
Purchaser, Barclays Bank PLC, New York Branch, as Administrative
Agent, PHH Mortgage Corporation, as Seller and Servicer, and PHH
Corporation, as Guarantor. The Amended Mortgage Repurchase
Facility Agreement increased the capacity of the Mortgage
Repurchase Facility from $150 million to $500 million
and eliminated certain restrictions on the eligibility of
underlying mortgage loan collateral. The Mortgage Repurchase
Facility was collateralized by underlying mortgage loans of
$274 million, included in Mortgage loans held for sale, net
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 2005, and is funded by a multi-seller conduit.
As of December 31, 2005, borrowings under this
floating-rate facility were $247 million and bore interest
at 4.3%. There were no borrowings under this facility during the
year ended December 31, 2004. The Mortgage Repurchase
Facility has a one-year term that is renewable on an annual
basis, subject to agreement by both parties. See Note 27,
 Subsequent Events  for a discussion of modifications
made to the Mortgage Repurchase Facility after December 31,
2005. Depending on anticipated mortgage loan origination volume,
the Company may increase the capacity under the Mortgage
Repurchase Facility subject to agreement with the lender.

During 2005, the Mortgage Venture entered into a
$350 million secured line of credit agreement with Barclays
Bank PLC, Bank of Montreal and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. that is
used to finance mortgage loans originated by the Mortgage
Venture. Borrowings outstanding under this secured line of
credit were $177 million as of December 31, 2005 and
were collateralized by underlying mortgage loans of
$241 million, included in Mortgage loans held for sale, net
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. This
floating-rate credit agreement was scheduled to expire on
October 5, 2006 and bore interest at 5.2% on
December 31, 2005. See Note 27,  Subsequent
Events  for a discussion of modifications made to the
Mortgage Venture s mortgage warehouse asset-backed debt
arrangements after December 31, 2005.

As of December 31, 2005, the total capacity under mortgage
warehouse asset-backed debt arrangements was approximately
$3.3 billion, and the Company had approximately
$1.9 billion of unused capacity available.

Unsecured
Debt  

Term Notes   

On February 9, 2005, the Company prepaid $443 million
aggregate principal amount of outstanding privately placed
senior notes in cash at an aggregate prepayment price of
$497 million, including accrued and unpaid interest. The
prepayment was made to avoid any potential debt covenant
compliance issues arising from the distributions made prior to
the Spin-Off and the related reduction in the Company s
Stockholders  equity. The prepayment price included an
aggregate make-whole amount of $44 million. During the year
ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net charge
of $37 million in connection with this prepayment of debt,
which consisted of the $44 million make-whole payment and a
write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs of
$1 million, partially offset by net interest rate swap
gains of $8 million. This charge was included in Spin-Off
related expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the
year ended December 31, 2005.

141

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The outstanding carrying value of term notes at
December 31, 2005 consisted of $1.1 billion of
publicly issued medium-term notes (the  MTNs ) issued
under the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2000 by and
between PHH and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A., as
successor trustee for Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (as amended
and supplemented, the  Indenture ) that mature between
January 2007 and April 2018. The outstanding carrying value of
term notes at December 31, 2004 consisted of
$1.4 billion of MTNs and $453 million
($443 million principal amount) of privately placed senior
notes. The effective rate of interest for the MTNs outstanding
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 6.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. The effective rate of interest for the privately
placed fixed-rate senior notes outstanding as of
December 31, 2004 was 7.6%. See Note 27,
 Subsequent Events  for a discussion of modifications
made to the Company s MTNs after December 31, 2005.

Commercial Paper   

The Company s policy is to maintain available capacity
under its committed revolving credit facility (described below)
to fully support its outstanding unsecured commercial paper. The
Company had unsecured commercial paper obligations of
$747 million and $130 million as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. This floating-rate commercial paper
matures within 270 days of issuance. The weighted-average
interest rate on outstanding unsecured commercial paper as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 4.7% and 2.7%, respectively.

Credit Facilities   

The Company was party to a $1.25 billion Three Year
Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement (the
 Credit Facility ), dated as of June 28, 2004 and
amended as of December 21, 2004, among PHH Corporation, a
group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent. On January 6, 2006, the Company
entered into the Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and
Revolving Credit Agreement (the  Amended Credit
Facility ), among PHH Corporation, a group of lenders and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. See
Note 27,  Subsequent Events  for more information
regarding the Amended Credit Facility. Pricing under the Credit
Facility was based upon the Company s senior unsecured
long-term debt credit ratings. Borrowings under the Credit
Facility would have matured in June 2007 and, as of
December 31, 2005, bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin of
60 basis points ( bps ). The Credit Facility also
required the Company to pay a per annum facility fee of
15 bps and a per annum utilization fee of approximately
12.5 bps if the Company s usage exceeded 33% of the
aggregate commitments under the Credit Facility. There were no
borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004. The Company maintains other
unsecured revolving credit facilities in the ordinary course of
business as displayed in  Debt Maturities  below. See
Note 27,  Subsequent Events  for a discussion of
modifications made to the Company s unsecured credit
facilities after December 31, 2005.

142

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Debt
Maturities  

The following table provides the contractual maturities of the
Company s indebtedness at December 31, 2005 except for
the Company s vehicle management asset-backed notes, where
estimated prepayments have been used (the indentures related to
vehicle management asset-backed notes require principal payments
based on cash inflows relating to the securitized vehicle leases
and related assets):

As of December 31, 2005, available funding under the
Company s asset-backed debt arrangements and committed
unsecured credit facilities consisted of:

(1)  
     
    Capacity is dependent upon maintaining compliance with, or
    obtaining waivers of, the terms, conditions and covenants of the
    respective agreements. With respect to asset-backed funding
    arrangements, capacity may be further limited by the
    availability of asset eligibility requirements under the
    respective agreements. 

(2)  
     
    Available capacity reflects a reduction in availability under
    the facilities due to an allocation against the facilities of
    $747 million which fully supports the outstanding unsecured
    commercial paper issued by the Company as of December 31,
    2005. Under the Company s policy, all of the outstanding
    unsecured commercial paper is supported by available capacity
    under its unsecured credit facilities. See Note 27,
     Subsequent Events  for information regarding changes
    in the Company s capacity under asset-backed debt
    arrangements and committed unsecured credit facilities after
    December 31, 2005. 

As of December 31, 2005, the Company also had
$874 million of availability for public debt issuances
under a shelf registration statement. On March 16, 2006,
access to the Company s shelf registration statement for
public debt issuances was no longer available due to the
Company s non-current status with the SEC.

Debt
Covenants  

Certain of the Company s debt arrangements require the
maintenance of certain financial ratios and contain restrictive
covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on
indebtedness of material subsidiaries, mergers, liens,
liquidations and sale and leaseback transactions. The Credit
Facility required that the Company maintain: (i) net worth
of $1.0 billion plus 25% of net income, if positive, for
each fiscal quarter after December 31, 2004 and (ii) a
ratio of debt to net worth no greater than 8:1. See
Note 27,  Subsequent Events  for information
regarding debt covenants in the Amended Credit Facility. The
indentures pursuant to which the publicly issued medium-term
notes have been issued require that the Company maintain a debt
to tangible equity

143

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

ratio of not more than 10:1. These indentures also restrict the
Company from paying dividends if, after giving effect to the
dividend, the debt to equity ratio exceeds 6.5:1. At
December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with all
of its financial covenants related to its debt arrangements.
(See Note 27,  Subsequent Events  for further
information.)

16.  
     
     Pension and Other Post Employment Benefits  

Defined Contribution Savings Plans   

The Company and the Mortgage Venture sponsor separate defined
contribution savings plans that provide certain eligible
employees of the Company and the Mortgage Venture an opportunity
to accumulate funds for retirement. Prior to the Spin-Off and
the creation of the Mortgage Venture, Cendant sponsored a
similar defined contribution savings plan for the Company s
employees. The Company and the Mortgage Venture match the
contributions of participating employees on the basis specified
by these plans. The Company s cost for contributions to
these plans for continuing operations was $16 million
during each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003.

Defined Benefit Pension Plan and Other Employee Benefit
    Plan   

Prior to the Spin-Off, Cendant sponsored a domestic
non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which covered
certain eligible employees. Benefits were based on an
employee s years of credited service and a percentage of
final average compensation, or as otherwise described by the
plan. In addition, Cendant maintained an other post employment
benefits ( OPEB ) plan for retiree health and welfare
for certain eligible employees.

In conjunction with the Spin-Off, the Company is responsible
only for the obligations related to its active employees under
both of these plans, which were transferred to Company-sponsored
plans. Cendant retained responsibility for the current and
future obligations of the Company s retirees as of
January 31, 2005. Both the defined benefit pension plan and
the OPEB plan are frozen plans, wherein the plans only accrue
additional benefits for a very limited number of the
Company s employees. The amounts presented below for the
defined benefit pension plan and the OPEB plan represent those
of the entire Company.

The measurement date for all of the Company s benefit
obligations and plan assets is December 31; however, due to
the Spin-Off, these obligations and assets were also measured at
January 31, 2005. The weighted-average discount rate and
rate of compensation increase used to measure the defined
benefit pension and OPEB plans  benefit obligations at
January 31, 2005 were 5.50% and 4.50%, respectively.

144

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following table provides a reconciliation of benefit
obligations, plan assets and the funded status of the
Company s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:

145

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The allocation, by asset category, of the fair value of plan
assets of the defined benefit pension plan at December 31,
2005 and 2004 was as follows:

At December 31, 2005, the Company s targeted
allocation, by asset category, of the fair value of plan assets
of the defined benefit pension plan is 45% to 77% equity
securities, 30% to 52% fixed income securities and 0% to 6% real
estate. To the extent that the actual allocation of plan assets
differs from the targeted allocation, the Company will consider
rebalancing the assets. The Company s goal is to manage
pension investments over the long term to achieve optimal
returns with an acceptable level of risk and volatility.

The net periodic benefit cost related to the defined benefit
pension plan included the following components:

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic
benefit cost were as follows:

The expense recorded for the OPEB plan during the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 was insignificant. During 2003,
the Company recorded $1 million of expense related to the
OPEB plan. The health care cost trend rate used to determine the
postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2005
was 10.0%. This rate decreases gradually to an ultimate rate of
5.0% as of December 31, 2010 and remains at that level
thereafter. The trend rate is a significant factor in
determining the amounts reported. A 1% increase or decrease in
assumed health care cost trend rates in each year would not have
a material effect on the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation as of December 31, 2005 or the aggregate service
and interest components of the net periodic postretirement
benefit cost for the year then ended.

The assumed discount rate at December 31, 2005 is based on
Moody s Aa rating for a bond portfolio with a duration
similar to the duration of the liabilities in the defined
benefit pension and OPEB plans at December 31, 2005.

146

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company establishes its expected long-term return on assets
considering various factors, which include targeted asset
allocation percentages, historic returns and expected future
returns. These factors are considered in the fourth quarter of
the year preceding the year in which those assumptions are
applied.

As of December 31, 2005, future expected benefit payments,
which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, were as
follows:

The Company s policy is to contribute amounts sufficient to
meet minimum funding requirements as set forth in employee
benefit and tax laws and additional amounts at the discretion of
the Company. The Company made contributions of $6 million
and $7 million to the defined benefit pension plans during
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The Company made a $3 million contribution to its defined
benefit plan during the third quarter of 2006 and does not
expect to make any further contributions in 2006.

The income tax provision consisted of the following:

147

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and
minority interest consisted of the following:

Deferred income taxes were comprised of the following:

The valuation allowances of $62 million and
$86 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, primarily relate to state net operating loss
carryforwards. The valuation allowance will be reduced when and
if the Company determines that it is more likely than not that
the net operating loss carryforwards will be realized. The
federal and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in
2023 and from 2007 to 2023, respectively.

The Company has an alternative minimum tax credit of
$23 million that is not subject to limitations. The credits
were carefully evaluated, and the appropriate actions were taken
by Cendant and the Company to make the credits available to the
Company after the Spin-Off. The Company has determined at this
time that the Company can utilize the credits in future years;
therefore, no reserve or valuation allowance has been recorded.

No provision has been made for federal deferred income taxes on
approximately $39 million of accumulated and undistributed
earnings of the Company s foreign subsidiaries at
December 31, 2005 since it is the present intention of
management to reinvest the undistributed earnings indefinitely
in those foreign operations. The

148

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

determination of the amount of unrecognized federal deferred
income tax liability for unremitted earnings is not practicable.

The Company s effective income tax rate for continuing
operations differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate as
follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
recorded a net deferred income tax charge related to the
Spin-Off of $9 million representing the change in estimated
deferred state income taxes and a tax contingency reserve of
$15 million, both of which significantly impacted its
effective tax rate for that year.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
recorded an $18 million increase in valuation allowances
and a $6 million reduction of the state apportionment
factor, both of which significantly impacted its effective tax
rate for that year.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company
recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of
$102 million, $96 million of which was not deductible
for federal and state income tax purposes and a $20 million
increase in valuation allowances, both of which significantly
impacted its effective tax rate for that year.

Significant judgment is required in determining the
Company s provision for income taxes and recording the
related assets and liabilities. During the year ended
December 31, 2005, the Company established an accrual in
Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for expected
tax contingencies through a charge to current tax expense in
accordance with SFAS No. 5.

In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company entered into a tax
sharing agreement with Cendant, more fully described in
Note 18,  Commitments and Contingencies.  For the
tax periods prior to the Spin-Off, the Company will be included
in Cendant s consolidated federal and state income tax
filings. For the tax periods subsequent to the Spin-Off, the
Company will file its own consolidated federal and state income
tax returns.

18.  
     
     Commitments and Contingencies  

Tax Contingencies   

In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company and Cendant entered
into a tax sharing agreement dated January 31, 2005, which
was amended on December 21, 2005 (the  Amended Tax
Sharing Agreement ). The Amended Tax Sharing Agreement
governs the allocation of liabilities for taxes between Cendant
and the Company, indemnification for certain tax liabilities and
responsibility for preparing and filing tax returns and
defending tax contests, as well as other tax-related matters.
The Amended Tax Sharing Agreement contains certain provisions
relating to the treatment of the ultimate settlement of Cendant
tax contingencies that relate to audit adjustments due to taxing
authorities  review of income tax returns. The
Company s tax basis in certain

149

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

assets may be adjusted in the future, and the Company may be
required to remit tax benefits ultimately realized by the
Company to Cendant in certain circumstances. Certain of the
effects of future adjustments relating to years the Company was
included in Cendant s income tax returns that change the
tax basis of assets, liabilities and net operating loss and tax
credit carryforward amounts may be recorded in equity rather
than as an adjustment to the tax provision.

Also, pursuant to the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, the Company
and Cendant have agreed to indemnify each other for certain
liabilities and obligations. The Company s indemnification
obligations could be significant in certain circumstances. For
example, the Company is required to indemnify Cendant for any
taxes incurred by it and its affiliates as a result of any
action, misrepresentation or omission by the Company or its
affiliates that causes the distribution of the Company s
Common stock by Cendant or the internal reorganization
transactions relating thereto to fail to qualify as tax-free. In
the event that the Spin-Off or the internal reorganization
transactions relating thereto do not qualify as tax-free for any
reason other than the actions, misrepresentations or omissions
of Cendant or the Company or its respective subsidiaries, then
the Company would be responsible for 13.7% of any taxes
resulting from such a determination. This percentage was based
on the relative pro forma net book values of Cendant and the
Company as of September 30, 2004, without giving effect to
any adjustments to the book values of certain long-lived assets
that may be required as a result of the Spin-Off and the related
transactions. The Company cannot determine whether it will have
to indemnify Cendant or its affiliates for any substantial
obligations in the future. The Company also has no assurance
that if Cendant or any of its affiliates is required to
indemnify the Company for any substantial obligations, they will
be able to satisfy those obligations.

The Company s income tax returns for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2004 and for the period from January 1,
2005 to the effective date of the Spin-Off were filed as part of
the Cendant consolidated federal return and certain Cendant
consolidated state returns. The Company filed a consolidated
federal return and state returns, as required, for the remainder
of 2005 on which was reported only its taxable income and the
taxable income of those corporations which were its subsidiaries
subsequent to the Spin-Off. The Company s income tax
provision was based upon estimated taxable income and the
associated estimated differences between the book and tax basis
of the assets and liabilities for the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004. Once the Company s and
Cendant s income tax returns for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005 are reconciled to tax asset and liability
estimates, the Company s tax assets and liabilities will be
adjusted to reflect actual amounts.

Cendant and its subsidiaries are the subject of an Internal
Revenue Service ( IRS ) audit for the tax years ended
December 31, 1998 through 2002 and the Company, since it
was a subsidiary of Cendant in those years, is included in this
IRS audit of Cendant. The Company will continue to be included
in this audit following the Spin-Off. Any subsequent audits of
Cendant for the tax years ended December 31, 2003 through
2005 would also include the Company for tax periods ending
through the date of the Spin-Off. Pursuant to the Amended Tax
Sharing Agreement, Cendant is responsible for separate state
taxes on a significant number of the Company s income tax
returns for years 2003 and prior. In addition, Cendant is
responsible for adjustments to the Company s federal income
tax returns and for the Company s state and local income
tax returns filed on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis
with Cendant for periods prior to the Spin-Off, except for those
taxes which might be attributable to the Spin-Off or internal
reorganization transactions relating thereto, as more fully
discussed above. The Company will be responsible for any
adjustments to separate state and local income tax returns for
periods after 2003 and for adjustments to federal and all state
and local income tax returns for periods after the Spin-Off.

The June 1999 disposition of the fleet businesses by Cendant was
structured as a tax-free reorganization by Cendant pursuant to
the IRS guidance at the time of the transaction. Accordingly, no
income tax expense was recorded on a majority of the gain from
this transaction. However, pursuant to an interpretive ruling,
the IRS has subsequently taken the position that similarly
structured transactions do not qualify as tax-free
reorganizations under the Internal Revenue Code
Section 368(a)(1)(A). An adverse ruling by the IRS on the
tax-free structure of this transaction could create a tax
benefit to the Company, and the Company would be required to pay
Cendant

150

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

any tax benefits that are realized by the Company as a result of
such ruling. Any cash payments that would be made for federal or
state taxes in connection with an adverse ruling are not
expected to be significant.

Legal Contingencies   

The Company is party to various claims and legal proceedings
from time to time related to contract disputes and other
commercial, employment and tax matters. Except as disclosed
below, the Company is not aware of any legal proceedings that it
believes could have, individually or in the aggregate, a
material adverse effect on its financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

In March and April 2006, several class actions were filed
against the Company, its Chief Executive Officer and its former
Chief Financial Officer in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey. The plaintiffs purport to represent
a class consisting of all persons (other than the Company s
officers and directors and their affiliates) who purchased the
Company s Common stock between May 12, 2005 and
March 1, 2006 (the  Class Period ). The
plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the defendants
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule  10b-5 
thereunder. Additionally, two derivative actions were filed in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
against the Company, its former Chief Financial Officer and each
member of its Board of Directors. One of these derivative
actions has since been voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs.
The remaining derivative action alleges breaches of fiduciary
duty and related claims based on substantially the same factual
allegations as in the class action suits.

Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, and because
these actions are at a preliminary stage, the Company cannot
accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters at this
time. The Company intends to vigorously defend against the
alleged claims in each of these matters. The ultimate resolution
of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

Loan Servicing Portfolio   

The Company sells a majority of its loans on a non-recourse
basis. The Company also provides representations and warranties
to purchasers and insurers of the loans sold. In the event of a
breach of these representations and warranties, the Company may
be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or indemnify the
purchaser, and any subsequent loss on the mortgage loan may be
borne by the Company. If there is no breach of a representation
and warranty provision, the Company has no obligation to
repurchase the loan or indemnify the investor against loss. The
Company s owned servicing portfolio represents the maximum
potential exposure related to representations and warranty
provisions.

Conforming conventional loans serviced by the Company are
securitized through Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac programs. Such
servicing is performed on a non-recourse basis, whereby
foreclosure losses are generally the responsibility of Fannie
Mae or Freddie Mac. The government loans serviced by the Company
are generally securitized through Ginnie Mae programs. These
government loans are either insured against loss by the Federal
Housing Administration or partially guaranteed against loss by
the Department of Veterans Affairs. Additionally, jumbo mortgage
loans are serviced for various investors on a non-recourse basis.

While the majority of the mortgage loans serviced by the Company
were sold without recourse, the Company has a program in which
it provides credit enhancement for a limited period of time to
the purchasers of mortgage loans by retaining a portion of the
credit risk. The retained credit risk, which represents the
unpaid principal balance of the loans, was $5.1 billion as
of December 31, 2005. In addition, the Company has
$594 million of recourse on specific mortgage loans that
have been sold as of December 31, 2005.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a liability of
$20 million, recorded in Other liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, for probable losses related to the
Company s loan servicing portfolio.

151

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Mortgage Reinsurance   

Through the Company s wholly owned mortgage reinsurance
subsidiary, Atrium, the Company has entered into contracts with
several primary mortgage insurance companies to provide mortgage
reinsurance on certain mortgage loans in the Company s loan
servicing portfolio. Through these contracts, the Company is
exposed to losses on mortgage loans pooled by year of
origination. Loss rates on these pools are determined based on
the unpaid principal balance of underlying loans. The Company
indemnifies the primary mortgage insurers for loss rates that
fall between a stated minimum and maximum. In return for
absorbing this loss exposure, the Company is contractually
entitled to a portion of the insurance premium from the primary
mortgage insurers. As of December 31, 2005, the Company
provided such mortgage reinsurance for approximately
$11.2 billion of mortgage loans in its servicing portfolio.
As stated above, the Company s contracts with the primary
mortgage insurers limit its maximum potential exposure to
losses, which was $746 million as of December 31,
2005. The Company is required to hold securities in trust
related to this potential obligation, which were included in
Restricted Cash in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet
as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, a
liability of $15 million was recorded in Other liabilities
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for estimated losses
associated with the Company s mortgage reinsurance
activities.

Loan Funding Commitments   

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had commitments to
fund mortgage loans with agreed-upon rates or rate protection
amounting to $4.4 billion. Additionally, as of
December 31, 2005, the Company had commitments to fund open
home equity lines of credit of $2.3 billion and
construction loans of $111 million.

Forward Delivery Commitments   

Commitments to sell loans generally have fixed expiration dates
or other termination clauses and may require the payment of a
fee. The Company can settle the forward delivery commitments on
a net basis; therefore, the commitments outstanding do not
necessarily represent future cash obligations. The
Company s $3.8 billion of forward delivery commitments
as of December 31, 2005 generally will be settled within
90 days of the individual commitment date.

Lease Commitments   

The Company is committed to making rental payments under
noncancelable operating leases covering various facilities and
equipment. Future minimum lease payments required under
noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2005 were
as follows:

152

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Commitments under capital leases as of December 31, 2005
and 2004 were not significant. During the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company incurred
rental expense of $35 million, $35 million and
$33 million, respectively.

Purchase Commitments   

In the normal course of business, the Company makes various
commitments to purchase goods or services from specific
suppliers, including those related to capital expenditures.
Aggregate purchase commitments made by the Company as of
December 31, 2005 were approximately $45 million. Of
this aggregate amount, $12 million represented a contract
for software services to be provided to the Company over the
next two fiscal years. An additional $10 million included
in the aggregate amount was associated with an outsource
contract to provide payroll, benefits and human resources
administration to the Company.

Indemnification of Cendant   

In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company entered into a
separation agreement with Cendant (the  Separation
Agreement ), pursuant to which, the Company has agreed to
indemnify Cendant for any losses (other than losses relating to
taxes, indemnification for which is provided in the Amended Tax
Sharing Agreement) that any party seeks to impose upon Cendant
or its affiliates that relate to, arise or result from:
(i) any of the Company s liabilities, including, among
other things: (a) all liabilities reflected in the
Company s pro forma balance sheet as of September 30,
2004 or that would be, or should have been, reflected in such
balance sheet, (b) all liabilities relating to the
Company s business whether before or after the date of the
Spin-Off, (c) all liabilities that relate to, or arise from
any performance guaranty of Avis in connection with indebtedness
issued by Chesapeake, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
(d) any liabilities relating to the Company s or its
affiliates  employees, and (e) all liabilities that
are expressly allocated to the Company or its affiliates, or
which are not specifically assumed by Cendant or any of its
affiliates, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, the Amended
Tax Sharing Agreement or the Transition Services Agreement;
(ii) any breach by the Company or its affiliates of the
Separation Agreement, the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement or the
Transition Services Agreement; and (iii) any liabilities
relating to information in the registration statement on
Form  8-A  filed
with the SEC on January 18, 2005, the information statement
filed by the Company as an exhibit to its Current Report on
Form  8-K  filed on
January 19, 2005 (the  January 19, 2005
Form  8-K )  or
the investor presentation filed as an exhibit to the
January 19, 2005
Form  8-K,  other
than portions thereof provided by Cendant.

There are no specific limitations on the maximum potential
amount of future payments to be made under this indemnification,
nor is the Company able to develop an estimate of the maximum
potential amount of future payments to be made under this
indemnification, if any, as the triggering events are not
subject to predictability.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Guarantees   

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into
numerous agreements that contain standard guarantees and
indemnities whereby the Company indemnifies another party for
breaches of representations and warranties. Such guarantees or
indemnifications are granted under various agreements, including
those governing leases of real estate, access to credit
facilities and use of derivatives and issuances of debt or
equity securities. The guarantees or indemnifications issued are
for the benefit of the buyers in sale agreements and sellers in
purchase agreements, landlords in lease contracts, financial
institutions in credit facility arrangements and derivative
contracts and underwriters in debt or equity security issuances.
While some of these guarantees extend only for the duration of
the underlying agreement, many survive the expiration of the
term of the agreement or extend into perpetuity (unless subject
to a legal statute of limitations). There are no specific
limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments
that the Company could be required to make under these
guarantees, and the Company is unable to develop an estimate of
the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under
these guarantees, if any, as the triggering events are not
subject to predictability. With

153

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

respect to certain of the aforementioned guarantees, such as
indemnifications of landlords against third-party claims for the
use of real estate property leased by the Company, the Company
maintains insurance coverage that mitigates any potential
payments to be made.

19.  
     
     Stock-Related Matters  

Stock Split   

In connection with and in order to consummate the Spin-Off, on
January 27, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors
authorized and approved a 52,684-for-one common stock split, to
be effected by a stock dividend at such ratio. The record date
with regard to such stock split was January 28, 2005. The
effect of this stock split is detailed in the Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Stockholders  Equity for the year
ended December 31, 2005. The effect on Common stock and
Additional paid-in capital is reflected in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004. All
references to the number of common shares and earnings per share
amounts in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets,
Consolidated Statements of Income and Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements reflect this stock split.

Rights Agreement   

The Company entered into a rights agreement dated as of
January 28, 2005 which entitles the Company s
stockholders to acquire shares of its Common stock at a price
equal to 50% of the then-current market value in limited
circumstances when a third party acquires beneficial ownership
of 15% or more of the Company s outstanding Common stock or
commences a tender offer for at least 15% of the Company s
Common stock, in each case, in a transaction that the
Company s Board of Directors does not approve. Under these
limited circumstances, all of the Company s stockholders,
other than the person or group that caused the rights to become
exercisable, would become entitled to effect discounted
purchases of the Company s Common stock which would
significantly increase the cost of acquiring control of the
Company without the support of the Company s Board of
Directors.

Common Stock Repurchases   

In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company entered into a
letter agreement dated January 31, 2005 with Cendant
requiring the Company to purchase shares of the Company s
Common stock held by Cendant following the Spin-Off. Pursuant to
the agreement, the Company purchased a total of
117,294 shares from Cendant during the year ended
December 31, 2005, for an aggregate purchase price of
$3 million, or an average of $21.73 per share. The
Company s obligations related to this agreement were
satisfied as of February 15, 2005.

On September 9, 2005, the Company announced an odd lot buy
back program (the  Program ) pursuant to which
stockholders owning fewer than 100 shares of the
Company s Common stock could sell all their shares or
purchase enough additional shares to increase their holdings to
100 shares. From September 9, 2005 to
November 16, 2005, the Company was authorized to purchase
up to 175,000 shares under the Program. The net number of
shares repurchased under the Program was 138,905 for an
aggregate purchase price of $4 million, or an average of
$27.22 per share. The Program expired on November 16,
2005.

All repurchased shares have been returned to the status of
authorized and unissued shares of the Company.

Restrictions on Paying Dividends   

Many of the Company s subsidiaries (including certain
consolidated partnerships, trusts and other non-corporate
entities) are subject to restrictions on their ability to pay
dividends or otherwise transfer funds to other consolidated
subsidiaries and, ultimately, to PHH Corporation (the parent
company). These restrictions relate to loan agreements
applicable to certain of the Company s asset-backed debt
arrangements and to regulatory restrictions applicable to the
equity of the Company s insurance subsidiary, Atrium. The
aggregate restricted net

154

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

assets of these subsidiaries totaled $1.4 billion as of
December 31, 2005. These restrictions on net assets of
certain subsidiaries, however, do not directly limit the
Company s ability to pay dividends from consolidated
Retained earnings. As discussed in Note 15,  Debt and
Borrowing Arrangements,  certain of the Company s debt
arrangements require maintenance of ratios and contain
restrictive covenants applicable to consolidated financial
statement elements that potentially could limit its ability to
pay dividends.

20.  
     
     Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income  

The after-tax components of Accumulated other comprehensive
(loss) income were as follows:

All components of Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income
presented above are net of income taxes except for currency
translation adjustments, which exclude income taxes related to
essentially permanent investments in foreign subsidiaries.

21.  
     
     Stock-Based Compensation  

Prior to the Spin-Off, the Company s employees were awarded
stock-based compensation in the form of Cendant common shares,
options and restricted stock units ( RSUs ).
Subsequent to the Spin-Off, certain Cendant stock-based awards
previously granted to the Company s employees were
converted into options and RSUs of the Company. The conversion
of the stock-based compensation was based on maintaining the
intrinsic value of each employee s previous Cendant grants
through an adjustment of both the number of options or RSUs and,
in the case of options, the exercise price. This computation
resulted in a change in the fair value of the awards immediately
prior to the conversion compared to immediately following the
conversion and, accordingly, a $4 million charge was
recorded during the year ended December 31, 2005, which was
included in Spin-Off related expenses in the accompanying
Consolidated Statement of Income.

Subsequent to the Spin-Off, certain Company employees were
awarded stock-based compensation in the form of RSUs and options
to purchase shares of PHH Common stock under the PHH Corporation
2005 Equity and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The
awards vest over periods ranging from four to six years, some
based upon the achievement of certain performance-based
criteria. Options awarded expire ten years after the grant date.
The Plan also allows awards of stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock and other stock- or cash-based awards. The
maximum number of shares of PHH Common stock issuable under the
Plan is 7,500,000, including those Cendant awards that were
converted into PHH awards in connection with the Spin-Off.

155

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company s policy is to grant options with exercise
prices at then-current fair market value of the Company s
shares of Common stock. In 2005, in accordance with its policy
at the time, the Company calculated fair market value for
purposes of determining exercise prices for options granted by
averaging the opening and closing share price for the
Company s Common stock for the day prior to the grant. As a
result, all of the options granted by the Company during eleven
months ended December 31, 2005 were granted at exercise
prices that were less than the market price of the stock on the
grant date. Subsequent to grants made during the year ended
December 31, 2005, the Company has changed its policy for
calculating the fair market value for purposes of determining
exercise prices for options granted such that the fair market
value will be the closing share price for the Company s
Common stock on the date of grant. The following table
summarizes the options converted and granted under the Plan from
February 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005:

Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31,
2005 ranged from $10.38 to $24.99. The table below summarizes
information regarding outstanding and exercisable stock options
as of December 31, 2005:

The weighted-average fair value at the date of grant for options
granted from February 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005 was
$7.84 and was estimated using the Black-Scholes option valuation
model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

RSUs granted by the Company entitle the Company s employees
to receive one share of PHH Common stock upon the vesting of
each RSU. From February 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005,
the Company granted 501,512 RSUs with a weighted-average
grant-date fair value of $25.53.

156

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Deferred compensation associated with RSUs recorded in
connection with the Spin-Off was $27 million and is
included in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in
Stockholders  Equity for the year ended December 31,
2005. The deferred compensation balance was $31 million as
of December 31, 2005, and is amortized to expense based
upon estimates for achieving the related vesting criteria during
the remaining vesting period of the RSUs. If the vesting
criteria are not achieved, the underlying RSUs will not vest and
the deferred compensation balance and any related expense will
be reversed.

22.  
     
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

The fair value of financial instruments is generally determined
by reference to market values resulting from trading on a
national securities exchange or in an
 over-the -counter
market. In cases where quoted market prices are not available,
fair value is based on estimates using present value or other
valuation techniques, as appropriate. The carrying amounts of
Cash and cash equivalents, Restricted cash, Investment
securities, Accounts receivable, net and Accounts payable and
accrued expenses approximate fair value due to the short-term
maturities of these assets and liabilities.

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of all financial
instruments were as follows:

157

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

23.  
     
     Related Party Transactions  

Spin-Off from Cendant   

Prior to the Spin-Off, the Company entered into various
agreements with Cendant and Cendant s real estate services
division in connection with the Spin-Off (collectively, the
 Spin-Off Agreements ), including (i) the
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement and related trademark
license, management services, marketing agreements, and other
agreements for the purpose of originating and selling mortgage
loans primarily sourced through NRT, Cartus and TRG, which
commenced operations in October 2005, and is consolidated within
the Company s financial statements; (ii) a strategic
relationship agreement whereby Cendant s real estate
services division and the Company have agreed on
non-competition, indemnification and exclusivity arrangements
(the  Strategic Relationship Agreement 
(iii) the Separation Agreement that requires the exchange
of information with Cendant and other provisions regarding the
Company s separation from Cendant; (iv) the Amended
Tax Sharing Agreement governing the allocation of liability for
taxes between Cendant and the Company, indemnification for
liability for taxes and responsibility for preparing and filing
tax returns and defending tax contests, as well as other
tax-related matters; and (v) the Transition Services
Agreement governing certain continuing arrangements between the
Company and Cendant to provide for the transition of the Company
from a wholly owned subsidiary of Cendant to an independent,
publicly traded company.

Prior to and as part of the Spin-Off, Cendant made a cash
contribution to the Company of $100 million and the Company
distributed assets net of liabilities of $593 million to
Cendant. Such amount included the historical cost of the net
assets of the Company s former relocation and fuel card
businesses, certain other assets and liabilities per the
Spin-Off Agreements and the net amount of forgiveness of certain
payables and receivables, including income taxes, between the
Company, its former relocation and fuel card businesses and
Cendant.

On May 12, 2005, PHH Broker Partner and Realogy Venture
Partner entered into an amendment to the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement (the  Amended Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement ). Pursuant to the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement, Realogy Venture Partner has the right to
terminate the Strategic Relationship Agreement and terminate the
Mortgage Venture in the event of:

a Regulatory Event (defined below) continuing for six months or
    more; provided that the Company may defer termination on account
    of a Regulatory Event for up to six additional one-month periods
    by paying Realogy a $1.0 million fee at the beginning of
    each such one-month period; 

a change in control of PHH involving a competitor of Realogy or
    certain other specified parties; 

a material breach, not cured within the requisite cure period,
    by the Company or its affiliates of the representations,
    warranties, covenants or other agreements related to the
    formation of the Mortgage Venture; 

failure by the Mortgage Venture to make scheduled distributions
    pursuant to the Amended Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement; 

bankruptcy or insolvency of PHH, or 

any act or omission by PHH that causes or would reasonably be
    expected to cause material harm to Realogy. 

A  Regulatory Event  is a situation in which
(i) PHH Mortgage or the Mortgage Venture becomes subject to
any regulatory order, or any governmental entity initiates a
proceeding with respect to PHH Mortgage or the Mortgage Venture,
and (ii) such regulatory order or proceeding prevents or
materially impairs the Mortgage Venture s ability to
originate loans for any period of time in a manner that
adversely affects the value of one or more quarterly
distributions to be paid by the Mortgage Venture pursuant to the
Amended Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement; provided, however,
that a Regulatory Event does not include (a) any order,
directive or interpretation or change in law, rule or
regulation, in any such case that is applicable generally to
companies

158

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

engaged in the mortgage lending business such that PHH Mortgage
or such affiliate or the Mortgage Venture is unable to cure the
resulting circumstances described in (ii) above, or
(b) any regulatory order or proceeding that results solely
from acts or omissions on the part of Cendant or its affiliates.

In addition, beginning on February 1, 2015, Realogy Venture
Partner may terminate the Amended Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement at any time by giving two years  notice to the
Company. Upon termination of the Amended Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement by Realogy Venture Partner, Realogy will
have the option either to require that PHH purchase
Realogy s interest in the Mortgage Venture at fair value,
plus, in certain cases, liquidated damages, or to cause the
Company to sell its interest in the Mortgage Venture to a third
party designated by Realogy at fair value plus, in certain
cases, liquidated damages. In the case of a termination by
Realogy following a change in control of PHH, the Company may be
required to make a cash payment to Realogy in an amount equal to
its allocable share of the Mortgage Venture s trailing
twelve months net income multiplied by the greater of
(i) the number of years remaining in the first
twelve years of the term of the Mortgage Venture Operating
Agreement or (ii) two years.

The Company has the right to terminate the Amended Mortgage
Venture Operating Agreement upon, among other things, a material
breach by Realogy of a material provision of the Amended
Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, in which case the Company
has the right to purchase Realogy s interest in the
Mortgage Venture at a price derived from an agreed-upon formula
based upon fair market value (which is determined with reference
to that trailing twelve months earnings before income taxes,
depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA )) for the
Mortgage Venture and the average market EBITDA multiple for
mortgage banking companies.

Upon termination of the Mortgage Venture, all of the Mortgage
Venture agreements will terminate automatically (excluding
certain privacy, non-competition, venture-related transition
provisions and other general provisions), and Realogy will be
released from any restrictions under the Mortgage Venture
agreements that may restrict its ability to pursue a
partnership, joint venture or another arrangement with any
third-party mortgage operation.

Corporate Expenses and Dividends   

Prior to the Spin-Off and in the ordinary course of business,
the Company was allocated certain expenses from Cendant for
corporate functions including executive management, accounting,
tax, finance, human resources, information technology, legal and
facility related expenses. Cendant allocated these corporate
expenses to subsidiaries conducting ongoing operations based on
a percentage of the subsidiaries  forecasted revenues. Such
expenses amounted to $3 million, $32 million and
$36 million during the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, at December 31,
2004, the Company had a $131 million receivable from
Cendant, representing amounts paid by the Company on behalf of
Cendant, net of the accumulation of corporate allocations and
amounts paid by Cendant on behalf of the Company. Amounts
receivable from Cendant were included in Other assets in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004. As
described above, in connection with the Spin-Off, certain
payables and receivables between Cendant and the Company were
forgiven. Accordingly, there was no such receivable from Cendant
as of December 31, 2005.

During each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
the Company paid Cendant $140 million (or $2.66 per
share after giving effect to the 52,684-for-one stock split
effected January 28, 2005) of cash dividends. The Company
did not pay cash dividends to Cendant during the year ended
December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31,
2004, the Company transferred a subsidiary owned by STARS to a
wholly owned subsidiary of Cendant not within the Company s
ownership structure. The net assets of the subsidiary
transferred were $16 million.

159

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

24.  
     
     Segment Information  

The Company conducts its operations through three business
segments: Mortgage Production, Mortgage Servicing and Fleet
Management Services. Certain income and expenses not allocated
to the three reportable segments are reported under the heading
Other.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company changed the
composition of its reportable business segments by separating
the business that was formerly called the Mortgage Services
segment into two segments   the Mortgage Production
segment and the Mortgage Servicing segment. All prior period
segment information has been revised for comparability to
reflect the Company s new reportable segments presentation.

Due to the commencement of operations of the Mortgage Venture in
the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company s management began
evaluating the operating results of each of its reportable
segments based upon Net revenues and segment profit or loss,
which is presented as the income or loss from continuing
operations before income tax provisions and after Minority
interest. The Mortgage Production segment profit or loss
excludes Cendant s minority interest in the profits and
losses of the Mortgage Venture. Prior to the commencement of the
Mortgage Venture operations, PHH Mortgage was party to marketing
agreements with NRT and Cendant Mobility (now Cartus), wherein
PHH Mortgage paid fees for services provided. These marketing
agreements terminated when the Mortgage Venture commenced
operations. The provisions of the Strategic Relationship
Agreement and marketing agreements entered into in connection
with the Spin-Off govern the manner in which the Mortgage
Venture and PHH Mortgage, respectively, are recommended by NRT,
Cartus and TRG.

160

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(1)  
     
    Expenses reported under the heading Other for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 were primarily Spin-Off related expenses. 

(2)  
     
    The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing
    operations before income taxes and minority interest to segment
    profit: 

(3)  
     
    Expenses reported under the heading Other for the year ended
    December 31, 2003 included a goodwill impairment charge of
    $102 million for the Fleet Management Services segment. 

161

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company s operations are substantially located in the
United States.

25.  
     
     Discontinued Operations  

As described in Note 1,  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies,  prior to and in connection with the
Spin-Off and subsequent to December 31, 2004, the Company
underwent an internal reorganization whereby it distributed its
former relocation and fuel card businesses to Cendant. The
results of operations of these businesses are presented in the
Consolidated Financial Statements as discontinued operations.

Summarized statement of income data for the discontinued
operations follows:

162

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

As of January 31, 2005, all of the assets and liabilities
of the Company s discontinued operations were distributed
to Cendant in conjunction with the Spin-Off (see Note 1,
 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ). The
assets and liabilities of the Company s discontinued
operations at December 31, 2004, as restated, are presented
below:

26.  
     
     Selected Quarterly Financial Data   (unaudited)  

Provided below is selected unaudited quarterly financial data
for 2005 and 2004, restated to give effect to the adjustments
described in Note 2,  Prior Period Adjustments. 

163

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

164

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Quarter Ended    

December 31, 2005    

(In millions,    

except per share    

data)    

Net revenues

$ 
     620 

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and
    minority interest

16 

Loss from continuing operations before minority interest

(7 
     ) 

Net loss

(6 
     ) 

Basic loss per share:

Loss from continuing operations

$ 
     (0.12 
     ) 

Net loss

(0.12 
     ) 

Diluted loss per share:

Loss from continuing operations

$ 
     (0.12 
     ) 

Net loss

(0.12 
     ) 

165

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

166

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

On January 6, 2006, the Company entered into the Amended
Credit Facility, which increased the capacity of the Credit
Facility from $1.25 billion to $1.30 billion, extended
the termination date from June 28, 2007 to January 6,
2011 and created a $50 million United States dollar
equivalent Canadian sub-facility, which is available to the
Company s Fleet Management Services operations in Canada.
Pricing under the Amended Credit Facility is based upon the
Company s senior unsecured long-term debt ratings. If the
ratings on the Company s senior unsecured long-term debt
assigned by Moody s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor s and Fitch Ratings are not equivalent to each other,
the second highest credit rating assigned by them determines
pricing under the Amended Credit Facility. Borrowings under the
Amended Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin of
38 bps. The Amended Credit Facility also requires the
Company to pay a per annum facility fee of 12 bps and a per
annum utilization fee of 10 bps if its usage exceeds 50% of
the aggregate commitments under the Amended Credit Facility. In
the event that the Company s second highest credit rating
is downgraded, the margin over LIBOR would become 47.5 bps
for the first downgrade and 70 bps for subsequent
downgrades, the facility fee would become 15 bps for the
first downgrade and 17.5 bps for subsequent downgrades and
the utilization fee would become 12.5 bps for the first
downgrade and any subsequent downgrades. The Amended Credit
Facility requires that the Company maintain: (i) on the
last day of each fiscal quarter, net worth of $1.0 billion
plus 25% of net income, if positive, for each fiscal quarter
ended after December 31, 2004 and (ii) at any time, a
ratio of indebtedness to tangible net worth no greater than 10:1.

On January 13, 2006, PHH Mortgage extended the expiration
date for its $500 million Mortgage Repurchase Facility to
January 12, 2007.

On March 7, 2006, Chesapeake changed its name to Chesapeake
Finance Holdings LLC ( Chesapeake Finance ), and it
and Terrapin redeemed all of their outstanding term notes,
variable funding notes and subordinated notes (with aggregate
outstanding principal balances of $1.1 billion,
$1.7 billion and $367 million, respectively) and
terminated the agreements associated with those borrowings.
Concurrently, Chesapeake Funding LLC, a newly formed wholly
owned subsidiary, issued two series of up to $2.7 billion
and $1.0 billion of variable funding notes under
Series 2006-1 and Series 2006-2, respectively, to fund
the redemption of this debt and provide additional committed
funding for the Fleet Management Services operations. The newly
issued variable funding notes are collateralized by leased
vehicles and related assets that are primarily included in Net
investment in fleet leases in the Company s Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The assets collateralizing the liabilities of
Chesapeake Funding LLC are not available to pay the
Company s general obligations. The Series 2006-1 and
Series 2006-2 notes will mature on March 6, 2007 and
December 1, 2006, respectively.

167

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

On March 16, 2006, access to the Company s shelf
registration statement for public debt issuances was no longer
available due to the Company s non-current status with the
SEC.

On April 6, 2006, the Company entered into a
$500 million unsecured revolving credit agreement (the
 $500 Million Agreement ) with a group of lenders
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, that
expires on April 5, 2007. Pricing, transaction terms and
financial covenants, including the net worth and ratio of
indebtedness to tangible net worth restrictions under the
$500 Million Agreement are substantially the same as those
under the Amended Credit Facility with the addition of a
facility fee of 10 bps against the outstanding commitments
under the facility as of October 6, 2006.

On June 1, 2006, the Mortgage Venture entered into a
$350 million repurchase facility with Bank of Montreal and
Barclays Bank PLC as Bank Principals and Fairway Finance
Company, LLC and Sheffield Receivables Corporation as Conduit
Principals. The obligations under the repurchase facility are
collateralized by underlying mortgage loans. The cost of the
facility is based upon the commercial paper issued by the
Conduit Principals plus a program fee of 30 bps. In
addition, the Mortgage Venture pays a liquidity fee of
approximately 20 bps on the program size. The maturity date
for this facility is June 1, 2009, subject to annual
renewals of certain underlying conduit liquidity arrangements.

Effective June 27, 2006, the Company amended the agreement
governing the Mortgage Venture s $350 million secured
line of credit to reduce the capacity under this credit
agreement to $200 million.

On July 12, 2006, Bishop s Gate received a notice (the
 Notice ), dated July 10, 2006, from The Bank of
New York, as Indenture Trustee (the  Trustee ), that
certain events of default had occurred under the Base Indenture
dated December 11, 1998 (the  Bishop s Gate
Indenture ) between the Trustee and Bishop s Gate,
pursuant to which Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Loan
Medium-Term Notes and Variable-Rate Notes, Series 1999-1,
Due 2006 and Variable-Rate Notes, Series 2001-2, Due 2008
(collectively, the  Bishop s Gate Notes ) were
issued. The Notice indicated that events of default occurred as
a result of Bishop s Gate s failure to provide the
Trustee with the Company s and certain other audited and
unaudited quarterly financial statements as required under the
Bishop s Gate Indenture. While the Notice further informed
the holders of the Bishop s Gate Notes of these events of
default, the Notice received did not constitute a notice of
acceleration of repayment of the Bishop s Gate Notes. The
Notice created an event of default under the Amended and
Restated Liquidity Agreement, dated as of December 11,
1998, as further amended and restated as of December 2,
2003, among Bishop s Gate, certain banks listed therein and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Agent (the  Bishop s Gate
Liquidity Agreement ).

As of August 15, 2006, the Company received all of the
required approvals and executed a Supplemental Indenture to the
Bishop s Gate Indenture waiving any event of default
arising as a result of the failure to provide the Trustee with
the Company s and certain other audited annual and
unaudited quarterly financial statements as required under the
Bishop s Gate Indenture. This waiver is effective provided
that such financial statements are delivered to the Trustee and
the rating agencies on the earlier of December 31, 2006 or
the date on or after September 30, 2006 by which such
financial statements are required to be delivered to the bank
group under the Bishop s Gate Liquidity Agreement. Also
executed was a related waiver of the default under the
Bishop s Gate Liquidity Agreement caused by the Notice
under the Bishop s Gate Indenture for failure to deliver
the required financial statements. A subsequent waiver to the
Bishop s Gate Liquidity Agreement became effective on
September 30, 2006, which extended the delivery date for
2005 annual audited financial statements to November 30,
2006 and to December 29, 2006 for the quarterly unaudited
financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006,
June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006. Per the
previously obtained approvals under the Supplemental Indenture
to the Bishop s Gate Indenture, the financial statement
delivery requirements under the Bishop s Gate Indenture
have been extended to deadlines that are identical to the
Bishop s Gate Liquidity Agreement.

On July 21, 2006, the Company entered into a
$750 million unsecured credit agreement (the  Tender
Support Facility ) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, that expires on
April 5, 2007. The Tender Support Facility provides
$750 million of capacity solely for the repayment of the
MTNs, and

168

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

was put in place in conjunction with the Company s tender
and consent offer discussed below. Pricing under the Tender
Support Facility is based upon the Company s senior
unsecured long-term debt ratings assigned by Moody s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor s. If those
ratings are not equivalent to each other, the higher credit
rating assigned by them determines pricing under this agreement,
unless there is more than one rating level difference between
the two ratings, in which case the rating one level below the
higher rating is applied. Borrowings under this agreement bear
interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 60 bps on or before
December 14, 2006 and 75 bps after December 14,
2006. In the event that the Company s higher credit rating
is downgraded on or before December 14, 2006, the margin
over LIBOR would become 87.5 bps for the first downgrade
and 125 bps for subsequent downgrades. After
December 14, 2006, the margin over LIBOR would become
100 bps for the first downgrade and 150 bps for
subsequent downgrades. The Tender Support Facility also requires
the Company to pay an initial fee of 10 bps of the
commitment and a per annum facility fee of 12 bps. In the
event that the Company s higher credit rating is downgraded
on or before December 14, 2006, the per annum facility fee
would become 15 bps for the first downgrade and 20 bps
for subsequent downgrades. After December 14, 2006, the per
annum facility fee would become 17.5 bps for the first
downgrade and 22.5 bps for subsequent downgrades. In
addition, the Company is subject to up to an additional
15 bps in fees against drawn amounts under the Tender
Support Facility. The net worth and net ratio of indebtedness to
tangible net worth restrictions under the Tender Support
Facility are generally consistent with those under the Amended
Credit Facility.

On July 31, 2006, Cendant executed a spin-off of both
Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide Corporation. The 49.9% ownership
in the Mortgage Venture was included in the spin-off of Realogy,
which owns NRT and Cartus and franchises to real estate
brokerage companies under the Century 21, Coldwell Banker,
ERA and Sotheby s International Realty brands. On
September 1, 2006, Cendant Corporation changed its name to
Avis Budget Group, Inc.

On September 14, 2006, the Company concluded a tender offer
and consent solicitation (the  Offer ) for MTNs issued
under the Indenture. The Company received consents on behalf of
$585 million and tenders on behalf of $416 million of
the aggregate notional principal amount of the
$1.081 billion of the MTNs. Borrowings of $415 million
were drawn under the Company s Tender Support Facility to
fund the bulk of the tendered bonds. Upon receipt of the
required consents related to the Offer, the Company entered into
Supplemental Indenture No. 4 to the Indenture governing the
MTNs ( Supplemental Indenture No. 4 ) with the
trustee on August 31, 2006, pursuant to which the deadline
for the delivery of the Company s financial statements to
the trustee was extended to December 31, 2006, if
necessary. In addition, Supplemental Indenture No. 4
provided for the waiver of all defaults that have occurred prior
to August 31, 2006 relating to the Company s financial
statements and other delivery requirements.

On September 20, 2006, Bishop s Gate retired
$400 million of term notes and $51 million of
subordinated notes in accordance with their scheduled maturity
dates. Accordingly, availability under the Company s
mortgage warehouse asset-backed debt arrangements has been
reduced by $451 million. Funds for the retirement of this
debt were provided by a combination of the sale of mortgage
loans and the issuance of commercial paper by Bishop s Gate.

On September 28, 2006, the maturity date of the Mortgage
Venture s $200 million secured line of credit was
extended to January 3, 2007.

On September 29, 2006, the Company received an extension to
file its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2005 from the New York Stock
Exchange. This extension allows for the continued listing of its
Common stock through January 2, 2007, subject to review by
the New York Stock Exchange on an ongoing basis.

On October 30, 2006, the Company further amended the
Mortgage Repurchase Facility by executing the Fifth Amended and
Restated Master Repurchase Agreement (the  Repurchase
Agreement ) and the Servicing Agreement (together with the
Repurchase Agreement, the  Amended Repurchase
Agreements ). The Amended Repurchase Agreements increased
the capacity of the Mortgage Repurchase Facility from
$500 million to

169

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

$750 million, expanded the eligibility of underlying
mortgage loan collateral and modified certain other covenants
and terms. In addition, the Mortgage Repurchase Facility has
been modified to conform to the revised bankruptcy remoteness
rules with regard to repurchase facilities adopted by the IRS in
October 2005. The Mortgage Repurchase Facility as amended by the
Amended Repurchase Agreements has a one-year term expiring on
October 29, 2007 that is renewable on an annual basis,
subject to agreement by the parties. The assets collateralizing
this facility are not available to pay the Company s
general obligations.

Under many of the Company s financing, servicing, hedging
and related agreements and instruments, the Company is required
to provide consolidated and/or subsidiary-level audited annual
financial statements, unaudited quarterly financial statements
and other documents. The delay in completing the 2005 audited
financial statements, as well as the restatement of prior period
financial results created the potential for breaches under these
agreements for failure to deliver the financial statements
and/or documents by specified deadlines, as well as potential
breaches of other covenants. The Company obtained waivers to
extend financial statement delivery and other document deadlines
(the  Deadlines ) as well as waive certain other
potential breaches under its Amended Credit Agreement, the
$500 Million Agreement, the Bishop s Gate Liquidity
Agreement, the financing agreements for Chesapeake Funding LLC
and other financing agreements. Initial waivers were obtained to
extend the Deadlines to June 15, 2006, and subsequent
waivers were obtained to extend the Deadlines to
September 30, 2006. The Company has obtained waivers under
these facilities, the Tender Support Facility and other
agreements which waive certain potential breaches of covenants
under those instruments and extend the Deadlines (the
 Extended Deadlines ) for the delivery of its
financial statements and other documents to the various lenders
under those instruments. With respect to the Company s
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006, the Extended Deadline is
December 29, 2006. An additional waiver was not needed for
the extension of the delivery date for the Chesapeake Funding
LLC annual servicing report as this report was provided to the
lenders by the existing September 30, 2006 deadline.

As discussed in Note 27,  Subsequent Events, 
under many of the Company s financing, servicing, hedging
and related agreements and instruments (collectively, its
 Financing Agreements ), the Company is required to
deliver annual and quarterly financial statements within a
specified period after the date of such financial statements.
Also as discussed in Note 27,  Subsequent
Events,  through negotiations with the lenders and trustees
under the Financing Agreements, the Company has obtained
extensions of the deadlines for delivery of annual and quarterly
financial statements in the past. Most recently, the deadlines
for delivery of the quarterly unaudited financial statements for
the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006 have been extended to December 29,
2006. Due to the existence of material weaknesses in the
Company s internal control over financial reporting and
delays in completing the 2005 audited financial statements, it
is now uncertain whether the Company can issue its 2006
quarterly financial statements within this extended date. It is
also uncertain as to whether the Company can issue its 2006
annual and 2007 quarterly financial statements within the
deadlines prescribed in its Financing Agreements or by the SEC.
The Company is negotiating with the lenders and trustees to the
Financing Agreements to extend the existing waivers and believes
such further extensions will be granted before the expiration of
the current deadlines. The Company is not presently in default
under any of the Financing Agreements.

If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient extensions and
financial statements are not delivered timely, the lenders have
the right to demand payment of amounts due under the Financing
Agreements either immediately or after a specified grace period.
In addition, because of
 cross-default 
provisions, amounts owed under other borrowing arrangements may
become due or, in the case of
 asset-backed  debt, new
borrowings may be precluded. Since repayments are required on
 asset-backed  debt as
cash inflows are received relating to the securitized assets,
new borrowings are necessary for the Company to continue normal
operations. Therefore, unless the Company can obtain the
necessary further extensions or negotiate alternative borrowing
arrangements, the uncertainty about the Company s ability
to meet its financial statement delivery requirements raises
substantial doubt about the Company s ability to continue
as a going concern.

170

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholder of PHH
Corporation: 

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of PHH
Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2005, and have issued our
report thereon dated November 22, 2006 (which report
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements and included explanatory paragraphs regarding the
Company s adoption of new accounting standards, the
restatement of the 2004 and 2003 consolidated financial
statements, and the uncertainty about the Company s ability
to comply with certain of its financing agreement covenants
relating to the timely filing of the Company s financial
statements which raises substantial doubt about its ability to
continue as a going concern); such report is included elsewhere
in this Form  10-K. 
We were engaged to audit, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and our report
dated November 22, 2006 disclaimed an opinion on
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting because
of a scope limitation and expressed an adverse opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting because of material weaknesses. Our audits
also included the financial statement schedules listed in
Item 15. The financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

November 22, 2006

171

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

172

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS 

See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

173

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

174

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.  
     
     Debt and Borrowing Arrangements  

The following table summarizes the components of PHH
    Corporation s unsecured indebtedness: 

Unsecured
Debt  

Term Notes   

On February 9, 2005, PHH Corporation prepaid
$443 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding
privately placed senior notes in cash at an aggregate prepayment
price of $497 million, including accrued and unpaid
interest. The prepayment was made to avoid any potential debt
covenant compliance issues arising from the distributions made
prior to the PHH Corporation s spin-off from Cendant and
the related reduction in PHH Corporation s
Stockholders  equity. The prepayment price included an
aggregate make-whole amount of $44 million. During the year
ended December 31, 2005, PHH Corporation recorded a net
charge of $37 million in connection with this prepayment of
debt, which consisted of the $44 million make-whole payment
and a write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs of
$1 million, partially offset by net interest rate swap
gains of $8 million. This charge was included in Spin-Off
related expenses in the Condensed Statement of Income for the
year ended December 31, 2005.

The outstanding carrying value of term notes at
December 31, 2005 consisted of $1.1 billion of
publicly issued medium-term notes (the  MTNs ) issued
under the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2000 by and
between PHH Corporation and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
N.A., as successor trustee for Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (as
amended and supplemented, the  Indenture ) that mature
between January 2007 and April 2018. The outstanding carrying
value of term notes at December 31, 2004 consisted of
$1.4 billion of MTNs and $453 million
($443 million principal amount) of privately placed senior
notes. The effective rate of interest for the MTNs outstanding
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 6.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. The effective rate of interest for the privately
placed fixed-rate senior notes outstanding as of
December 31, 2004 was 7.6%. See Note 3,
 Subsequent Events  for a discussion of modifications
made to the MTNs after December 31, 2005.

Commercial Paper   

PHH Corporation s policy is to maintain available capacity
under its committed revolving credit facility (described below)
to fully support its outstanding unsecured commercial paper. PHH
Corporation had unsecured commercial paper obligations of
$747 million and $130 million as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. This floating-rate commercial paper
matures within 270 days of issuance. The weighted-average
interest rate on outstanding unsecured commercial paper as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 4.7% and 2.7%, respectively.

175

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Credit Facility   

PHH Corporation was party to a $1.25 billion Three Year
Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement (the
 Credit Facility ), dated as of June 28, 2004 and
amended as of December 21, 2004, among PHH Corporation, a
group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent. On January 6, 2006, PHH Corporation
entered into the Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and
Revolving Credit Agreement (the  Amended Credit
Facility ), among PHH Corporation, a group of lenders and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. See
Note 3,  Subsequent Events  for more information
regarding the Amended Credit Facility. Pricing under the Credit
Facility was based upon PHH Corporation s senior unsecured
long-term debt credit ratings. Borrowings under the Credit
Facility would have matured in June 2007 and, as of
December 31, 2005, bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin of
60 basis points ( bps ). The Credit Facility also
required PHH Corporation to pay a per annum facility fee of
15 bps and a per annum utilization fee of approximately
12.5 bps if PHH Corporation s usage exceeded 33% of
the aggregate commitments under the Credit Facility. There were
no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004. See Note 3,
 Subsequent Events  for a discussion of modifications
made to the PHH Corporation s unsecured credit facilities
after December 31, 2005.

Debt
Maturities  

The following table provides the contractual maturities of PHH
Corporation s indebtedness at December 31, 2005:

As of December 31, 2005, available funding under PHH
Corporation s committed unsecured credit facility consisted
of:

(1)  
     
    Capacity is dependent upon maintaining compliance with, or
    obtaining waivers of, the terms, conditions and covenants of the
    respective agreements. 

(2)  
     
    Available capacity reflects a reduction in availability under
    the facility due to an allocation against the facility of
    $747 million which fully supports the outstanding unsecured
    commercial paper issued by PHH Corporation as of
    December 31, 2005. Under PHH Corporation s policy, all
    of the outstanding unsecured commercial paper is supported by
    available capacity under its unsecured credit facility. See
    Note 3, 

176

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Subsequent Events  for information regarding changes
    in PHH Corporation s capacity under committed unsecured
    credit facilities after December 31, 2005. 

As of December 31, 2005, PHH Corporation also had
$874 million of availability for public debt issuances
under a shelf registration statement. On March 16, 2006,
access to PHH Corporation s shelf registration statement
for public debt issuances was no longer available due to its
non-current status with the SEC.

Debt
Covenants  

Certain of PHH Corporation s debt arrangements require the
maintenance of certain financial ratios and contain restrictive
covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on
indebtedness of material subsidiaries, mergers, liens,
liquidations and sale and leaseback transactions. The Credit
Facility required that PHH Corporation maintain: (i) net
worth of $1.0 billion plus 25% of net income, if positive,
for each fiscal quarter after December 31, 2004 and
(ii) a ratio of debt to net worth no greater than 8:1. See
Note 3,  Subsequent Events  for information
regarding debt covenants in the Amended Credit Facility. The
indentures pursuant to which the publicly issued medium-term
notes have been issued require that PHH Corporation maintain a
debt to tangible equity ratio of not more than 10:1. These
indentures also restrict PHH Corporation from paying dividends
if, after giving effect to the dividend, the debt to equity
ratio exceeds 6.5:1. At December 31, 2005, PHH Corporation
was in compliance with all of its financial covenants related to
its debt arrangements. (See Note 3,  Subsequent
Events  for further information.)

2.  
     
     Guarantees and Indemnifications  

PHH Corporation provides guarantees to third parties on behalf
of its consolidated subsidiaries. These include guarantees of
payments under derivative contracts that are used to manage
interest rate risk, rent payments to landlords under operating
lease agreements, payments of principal under certain borrowing
arrangements and guarantees of performance under certain service
arrangements.

3.  
     
     Subsequent Events  

On January 6, 2006, PHH Corporation entered into the
Amended Credit Facility, which increased the capacity of the
Credit Facility from $1.25 billion to $1.30 billion,
extended the termination date from June 28, 2007 to
January 6, 2011 and created a $50 million United
States dollar equivalent Canadian sub-facility, which is
available to the PHH Corporation s Fleet Management
Services subsidiary in Canada. Pricing under the Amended Credit
Facility is based upon PHH Corporation s senior unsecured
long-term debt ratings. If the ratings on PHH Corporation s
senior unsecured long-term debt assigned by Moody s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor s and Fitch
Ratings are not equivalent to each other, the second highest
credit rating assigned by them determines pricing under the
Amended Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Amended Credit
Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 38 bps.
The Amended Credit Facility also requires PHH Corporation to pay
a per annum facility fee of 12 bps and a per annum
utilization fee of 10 bps if its usage exceeds 50% of the
aggregate commitments under the Amended Credit Facility. In the
event that PHH Corporation s second highest credit rating
is downgraded, the margin over LIBOR would become 47.5 bps
for the first downgrade and 70 bps for subsequent
downgrades, the facility fee would become 15 bps for the
first downgrade and 17.5 bps for subsequent downgrades and
the utilization fee would become 12.5 bps for the first
downgrade and any subsequent downgrades. The Amended Credit
Facility requires that PHH Corporation maintain: (i) on the
last day of each fiscal quarter, net worth of $1.0 billion
plus 25% of net income, if positive, for each fiscal quarter
ended after December 31, 2004 and (ii) at any time, a
ratio of indebtedness to tangible net worth no greater than 10:1.

177

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

On March 16, 2006, access to the PHH Corporation s
shelf registration statement for public debt issuances was no
longer available due to its non-current status with the SEC.

On April 6, 2006, PHH Corporation entered into a
$500 million unsecured revolving credit agreement (the
 $500 Million Agreement ) with a group of lenders
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, that
expires on April 5, 2007. Pricing, transaction terms and
financial covenants, including the net worth and ratio of
indebtedness to tangible net worth restrictions under the
$500 Million Agreement are substantially the same as those
under the Amended Credit Facility with the addition of a
facility fee of 10 bps against the outstanding commitments
under the facility as of October 6, 2006.

On July 21, 2006, PHH Corporation entered into a
$750 million unsecured credit agreement (the  Tender
Support Facility ) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, that expires on
April 5, 2007. The Tender Support Facility provides
$750 million of capacity solely for the repayment of the
MTNs, and was put in place in conjunction with PHH
Corporation s tender and consent offer discussed below.
Pricing under the Tender Support Facility is based upon PHH
Corporation s senior unsecured long-term debt ratings
assigned by Moody s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor s. If those ratings are not
equivalent to each other, the higher credit rating assigned by
them determines pricing under this agreement, unless there is
more than one rating level difference between the two ratings,
in which case the rating one level below the higher rating is
applied. Borrowings under this agreement bear interest at LIBOR
plus a margin of 60 bps on or before December 14, 2006
and 75 bps after December 14, 2006. In the event that
PHH Corporation s higher credit rating is downgraded on or
before December 14, 2006, the margin over LIBOR would
become 87.5 bps for the first downgrade and 125 bps
for subsequent downgrades. After December 14, 2006, the
margin over LIBOR would become 100 bps for the first
downgrade and 150 bps for subsequent downgrades. The Tender
Support Facility also requires PHH Corporation to pay an initial
fee of 10 bps of the commitment and a per annum facility
fee of 12 bps. In the event that the Company s higher
credit rating is downgraded on or before December 14, 2006,
the per annum facility fee would become 15 bps for the
first downgrade and 20 bps for subsequent downgrades. After
December 14, 2006, the per annum facility fee would become
17.5 bps for the first downgrade and 22.5 bps for
subsequent downgrades. In addition, PHH Corporation is subject
to up to an additional 15 bps in fees against drawn amounts
under the Tender Support Facility. The net worth and net ratio
of indebtedness to tangible net worth restrictions under the
Tender Support Facility are generally consistent with those
under the Amended Credit Facility.

On September 14, 2006, PHH Corporation concluded a tender
offer and consent solicitation (the  Offer ) for MTNs
issued under the Indenture. PHH Corporation received consents on
behalf of $585 million and tenders on behalf of
$416 million of the aggregate notional principal amount of
the $1.081 billion of the MTNs. Borrowings of
$415 million were drawn under PHH Corporation s
$750 million Tender Support Facility to fund the bulk of
the tendered bonds. Upon receipt of the required consents
related to the Offer, PHH Corporation entered into Supplemental
Indenture No. 4 to the Indenture governing the MTNs
( Supplemental Indenture No. 4 ) with the trustee
on August 31, 2006, pursuant to which the deadline for the
delivery of PHH Corporation s financial statements to the
trustee was extended to December 31, 2006, if necessary. In
addition, Supplemental Indenture No. 4 provided for the
waiver of all defaults that have occurred prior to
August 31, 2006 relating to PHH Corporation s
financial statements and other delivery requirements.

On September 29, 2006, PHH Corporation received an
extension to file its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2005 from the New York Stock
Exchange. This extension allows for the continued listing of its
Common stock through January 2, 2007, subject to review by
the New York Stock Exchange on an ongoing basis.

178

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

PHH CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Under many of PHH Corporation s financing, servicing,
hedging and related agreements and instruments, it is required
to provide consolidated and/or subsidiary-level audited annual
financial statements, unaudited quarterly financial statements
and other documents. The delay in completing the 2005 audited
financial statements, as well as the restatement of prior period
financial results created the potential for breaches under these
agreements for failure to deliver the financial statements
and/or documents by specified deadlines, as well as potential
breaches of other covenants. PHH Corporation obtained waivers to
extend financial statement delivery and other document deadlines
(the  Deadlines ) as well as waive certain other
potential breaches under its Amended Credit Agreement, the
$500 Million Agreement and other financing agreements.
Initial waivers were obtained to extend the Deadlines to
June 15, 2006, and subsequent waivers were obtained to
extend the Deadlines to September 30, 2006. PHH Corporation
has obtained waivers under these facilities, the Tender Support
Facility and other agreements which waive certain potential
breaches of covenants under those instruments and extend the
Deadlines (the  Extended Deadlines ) for the delivery
of its financial statements and other documents to the various
lenders under those instruments. With respect to the PHH
Corporation s Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2006, the Extended Deadline is
December 29, 2006.

179

Table of Contents   

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES 

PHH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

(1)  
     
    Restructuring associated with the spin-off from Cendant
    Corporation during the year ended December 31, 2005
    resulted in reductions of state net operating losses with
    corresponding reductions in valuation allowances. 

(2)  
     
    Expired net operating losses and changes in the state tax
    apportionment factor resulted in corresponding reductions in
    valuation allowances during the year ended December 31,
    2004. 

PHH CORPORATION 

(1)  
     
    Restructuring associated with the spin-off from Cendant
    Corporation during the year ended December 31, 2005
    resulted in reductions of state net operating losses with
    corresponding reductions in valuation allowances. 

(2)  
     
    Expired net operating losses and changes in the state tax
    apportionment factor resulted in corresponding reductions in
    valuation allowances during the year ended December 31,
    2004. 

(3)  
     
    Intercompany transfer resulting from corporate restructuring in
    connection with the spin-off from Cendant Corporation during the
    year ended December 31, 2005. 

180

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.  
     
      Controls and Procedures   

Disclosure Controls and
Procedures  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, management
performed, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e)  of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act ). Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed
to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be
disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange
Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules and forms, and that such information is
accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on the
evaluation and the identification of the material weaknesses in
internal control over financial reporting described below, as
well as our inability to file this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  within
the statutory time period, management concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were not effective for the
quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005,
September 30, 2005 and December 31, 2005, and
management further expects that our disclosure controls and
procedures will not be effective for the year ending
December 31, 2006.

Because of the material weaknesses identified in our evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, we performed
additional procedures, where necessary, so that our consolidated
financial statements for all accounting periods beginning with
the year ended December 31, 2001 and through the year ended
December 31, 2005, including quarterly periods, and the
Selected Financial Data for all accounting periods, are
presented in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States ( GAAP ). These
procedures included, among other things, evaluating the
accounting treatment relating to our spin-off from Cendant
Corporation (the  Spin-Off ) and certain other
matters; validating data to independent source documentation and
reassessing original judgments we made about various accounting
treatments; reviewing our existing contracts to determine proper
financial reporting; performing additional closing procedures,
including detailed reviews of journal entries, re-performance of
account reconciliations and analyses of balance sheet accounts;
and performing additional procedures in other areas requiring
restatement adjustments.

Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined
in Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f)  of the
Exchange Act. Internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The effectiveness
of any system of internal control over financial reporting is
subject to inherent limitations, including the exercise of
judgment in designing, implementing, operating, and evaluating
the controls and procedures. Because of these inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot
provide absolute assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
in accordance with GAAP and may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate. We intend to continue to monitor
and upgrade our internal controls as necessary and appropriate
for our business, but cannot assure you that such improvements
will be sufficient to provide us with effective internal control
over financial reporting.

Management, with the participation of our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 as required under Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( SOX ). Management s
assessment of internal control over financial reporting was
conducted using the criteria in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ).
Management utilized

181

Table of Contents   

substantial internal resources and engaged outside consultants
to assist in various aspects of its assessment and compliance
efforts. Based on the material weaknesses identified below,
management concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2005. A
 material weakness  is defined as a significant
deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will
not be prevented or detected. A  significant
deficiency  is defined as a control deficiency, or
combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a
company s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process,
or report external financial data reliably in accordance with
GAAP such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a
misstatement of a company s annual or interim financial
statements that is more than inconsequential will not be
prevented or detected.

In conducting its assessment, management was unable to complete
its review and testing of certain controls for information
technology systems operated by a third party and provided in
support of our financial reporting, general ledger, accounts
payable, accounts receivable, customer billing, and human
resource and payroll system processes (the  Outsourced IT
Services ). Pursuant to our transition services agreement,
dated January 31, 2005 with Cendant Corporation (now known
as Avis Budget Group, Inc., but referred to herein as
 Cendant ), Cendant provided certain information
technology services to us following the Spin-Off, including
maintaining the software, databases and servers for the
Outsourced IT Services. See also  Item 1.
Business   Arrangements with Cendant  
Transition Services Agreement  for additional information.
The servers were housed in a data center operated by a third
party with whom we did not have a separate contractual
arrangement. In addition, we did not complete all necessary
testing of our internal controls over the human resource and
payroll processes (the  HR Processes ) in 2005 prior
to a material change in our control environment resulting from
the transition of the HR Processes from Cendant to a third-party
payroll processing provider, effective January 1, 2006, and
were unable to recreate this control environment following the
transition. Because we were unable to complete our review and
testing of all the internal controls surrounding the Outsourced
IT Services and HR Processes, there can be no assurance that
there were not additional material weaknesses relating to the
Outsourced IT Services and HR Processes.

In connection with management s assessment of our internal
control over financial reporting, we identified five material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2005:

I. We did not have adequate controls in place to establish
and maintain an effective control environment. Specifically, we
identified the following deficiencies that in the aggregate
constituted a material weakness:

Our senior management did not establish and maintain a proper
    tone as to internal control over financial reporting.
    Specifically, senior management did not emphasize, through
    consistent communication, the importance of internal control
    over financial reporting. 

We did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with
    the appropriate level of knowledge, experience and training in
    the application of GAAP and in internal control over financial
    reporting commensurate with our financial reporting obligations. 

We did not maintain sufficient, formalized and consistent
    finance and accounting policies nor did we maintain adequate
    controls with respect to the review, supervision and monitoring
    of our accounting operations. 

We did not establish and maintain adequate segregation of
    duties, assignments and delegation of authority with clear lines
    of communication to provide reasonable assurance that we were in
    compliance with existing policies and procedures. 

We did not establish and maintain a sufficient internal audit
    function and did not complete an adequate fraud risk assessment
    to determine the appropriate internal audit scope. 

The material weakness in our control environment increases the
likelihood of material misstatements of our annual or interim
consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or
detected and contributed to the existence of the material
weaknesses discussed in the items below.

182

Table of Contents   

II. We did not maintain effective controls, including
monitoring, to provide reasonable assurance that our financial
closing and reporting process was timely and accurate.
Specifically, we identified the following deficiencies that in
the aggregate constituted a material weakness:

We did not maintain sufficient, formalized written policies and
    procedures governing the financial closing and reporting process. 

We did not maintain effective controls to provide reasonable
    assurance that management oversight and review procedures were
    properly performed over the accounts and disclosures in our
    consolidated financial statements. In addition, we did not
    maintain effective controls over the reporting of information to
    management to provide reasonable assurance that the preparation
    of our consolidated financial statements and disclosures were
    complete and accurate. 

We did not maintain effective controls over the recording of
    journal entries. Specifically, effective controls were not
    designed and in place to provide reasonable assurance that
    journal entries were prepared with sufficient supporting
    documentation and reviewed and approved to provide reasonable
    assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the entries
    recorded. 

We did not maintain effective controls to provide reasonable
    assurance that accounts were complete and accurate and agreed to
    detailed supporting documentation and that reconciliations of
    accounts were properly performed, reviewed and approved. 

III. We did not maintain effective controls, including
policies and procedures, over accounting for certain derivative
financial instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 133, Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
( SFAS No. 133 ). Specifically, we
identified the following deficiencies in the process of
accounting for derivative instruments that in the aggregate
constituted a material weakness:

In our transition to an independent, publicly traded company, we
    did not implement effective policies and procedures to
    transition the responsibilities related to ongoing monitoring of
    debt-related derivative transactions and the application of
    appropriate accounting for debt-related derivative transactions
    to our corporate treasury and accounting functions. 

We did not establish and maintain sufficient policies and
    procedures relating to the application of the proper accounting
    treatment for derivative financial instruments and we did not
    maintain sufficient documentation to meet the criteria for hedge
    accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133. 

We did not monitor and maintain adequate documentation relating
    to compliance with existing policies and procedures to provide
    reasonable assurance of the proper accounting treatment for
    derivatives. 

IV. We did not maintain effective controls, including
policies and procedures, over accounting for contracts.
Specifically, we did not have sufficient policies and procedures
to provide reasonable assurance that contracts were reviewed by
the accounting department to evaluate and document the
appropriate application of GAAP which resulted in a material
weakness related to contract administration.

V. We did not design and maintain effective controls over
accounting for income taxes. Specifically, we identified the
following deficiencies in the process of accounting for income
taxes that in the aggregate constituted a material weakness:

We did not maintain effective policies and procedures to provide
    reasonable assurance that management oversight and review
    procedures were adequately performed for the proper reporting of
    income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. 

We did not maintain effective controls over the calculation,
    recording and reconciliation of federal and state income taxes
    to provide reasonable assurance of the appropriate accounting
    treatment in our consolidated financial statements. 

Because of the five material weaknesses described above,
management has concluded that we did not maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, based on the  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by COSO.

The material weaknesses identified above contributed to the
occurrence of certain errors identified in our consolidated
financial statements for prior periods. As a result, we are
restating our consolidated financial

183

Table of Contents   

statements and related disclosures for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003. Certain restatement adjustments
affecting our audited annual financial statements for periods
prior to December 31, 2003 have also been reflected in the
Selected Financial Data in this
Form  10-K.  Certain
restatement adjustments also affected our unaudited quarterly
financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2004,
June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004, March 31,
2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005 previously
filed on
Form  10-Q.  See
Note 2,  Prior Period Adjustments  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K  for
additional information regarding the restatement of our
consolidated financial statements. These material weaknesses
could result in additional material misstatements of our annual
or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be
prevented or detected.

As a result of management s incomplete assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005, Deloitte & Touche LLP,
our independent registered public accounting firm, was unable to
perform auditing procedures necessary to form an opinion on
management s assessment and did not express an opinion on
management s assessment and expressed an adverse opinion on
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has issued an attestation report
which is included in  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  in this
Form  10-K. 

changes in internal
control over financial reporting  

There have been no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended
December 31, 2005 that have materially affected or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

Remediation of Material
Weaknesses in Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting  

We have engaged in, and continue to engage in, substantial
efforts to address the material weaknesses in our internal
control over financial reporting and the ineffectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures. It is management s goal
to remediate as many material weaknesses as feasible in 2006,
but we expect that we will need to continue our remediation
efforts into 2007. The following paragraphs describe the ongoing
changes to our internal control over financial reporting
subsequent to December 31, 2005 that materially affected,
or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting:

We significantly strengthened our executive management ranks
    during 2006, including the appointment of a new Chief Financial
    Officer. During 2006, we also committed substantial resources to
    enhance our finance, accounting and tax departments. We have
    engaged outside consultants and hired additional professionals
    in our finance and accounting staff in order to address the
    delay in the preparation of our financial statements. We
    continue to seek experienced personnel to augment our finance,
    accounting and tax departments. In addition, we will implement
    training programs for our finance and accounting staff during
    the remainder of 2006 and in 2007. 

During 2006, management formed a SOX steering committee to
    oversee the remainder of our 2005 SOX assessment and implement
    and oversee our 2006 SOX assessment process. The committee meets
    regularly to review significant findings and resolve issues and
    has retained one big four accounting firm to serve as our
    internal audit co-source provider for 2006 and another to serve
    as our SOX advisor. Our SOX steering committee reports its
    progress and summary results to the Audit Committee on a
    periodic basis. In the third quarter of 2006, we initiated
    periodic communications from senior management regarding the
    importance of adherence to internal controls and company
    policies and will be implementing internal control training
    programs for employees. 

We recently began to revise our existing policies and procedures
    and implement additional policies and procedures as necessary.
    This process will continue through the remainder of 2006 and
    into 2007. Management has also begun designing controls to
    provide reasonable assurance that we comply with these enhanced
    policies and procedures in key areas, including accounting for
    income taxes, contracts and derivatives. 

184

Table of Contents   

During the third quarter of 2006, we expanded our Disclosure
    Committee and introduced a management confirmation process
    requiring individual control owners to verify the results of
    management s SOX assessment on a quarterly basis, in
    support of our management representation process. 

As it relates to the HR processes, during the first quarter of
    2006 we changed our third-party payroll processing provider and
    continue to enhance the implementation of monitoring controls
    over the functions performed by this third-party provider. 

As it relates to the Outsourced IT Services, we migrated our
    consolidation and reporting application to an in-house server in
    the first quarter of 2006. For those critical applications that
    remain under the management of the Outsourced IT Services
    provider, we expect to obtain access to enable us to adequately
    review and test the controls surrounding the Outsourced IT
    Services in 2006. 

Our continuing remediation efforts noted above are subject to
our internal control assessment, testing and evaluation
processes. While these efforts continue, we will rely on
additional substantive procedures and other measures as needed
to assist us with meeting the objectives otherwise fulfilled by
an effective control environment. We expect that our internal
control over financial reporting will not be effective as of
March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006
or December 31, 2006.

Item 9B.  
     
      Other Information   

None.

PART III 

Item 10.  
     
      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Executive
Officers  

Our executive officers are set forth in the table below. All
executive officers are appointed by and serve at the pleasure of
the Board of Directors.

Name  
       
      Age    
       
      Position(s)  

Terence W. Edwards

51 

President and Chief Executive Officer 
    President and Chief Executive Officer  
    PHH Mortgage Corporation ( PHH Mortgage ) 

Clair M. Raubenstine

65 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

George J. Kilroy

58 

President and Chief Executive Officer  
    PHH Vehicle Management Services Group LLC
    ( PHH Arval ) 

Mark R. Danahy

47 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
    PHH Mortgage 

William F. Brown

49 

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary  
    PHH Mortgage 

Mark E. Johnson

46 

Vice President and Treasurer 

Michael D. Orner

39 

Vice President and Controller 

Terence W. Edwards  serves as our President and Chief
Executive Officer, a position he has held since February 2005
and President and Chief Executive Officer of PHH Mortgage, a
position he has held since August 2005. Prior to our spin-off
from Cendant in the first quarter of 2005 (the
 Spin-Off ), Mr. Edwards served as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Cendant Mortgage Corporation (now PHH
Mortgage) since February 1996, and as such, was responsible for
overseeing its entire mortgage banking operations. From 1995 to
1996, Mr. Edwards served as Vice President of Investor
Relations and Treasurer of PHH Corporation ( PHH ) and
was responsible for PHH s investor, banking and rating
agency relations, financing resources, cash management,

185

Table of Contents   

pension investment management and internal financial structure.
Mr. Edwards joined PHH in 1980 as a treasury operations
analyst and has held positions of increasing responsibility,
including Director, Mortgage Finance and Senior Vice President,
Secondary Marketing.

Clair M. Raubenstine  serves as our Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held
since February 2006. From October 1998 through June 2002,
Mr. Raubenstine served as a national independence
consulting partner with PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP
( PricewaterhouseCoopers ). He also previously served
as an Accounting, Auditing and Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) consulting partner and as an
assurance and business advisory services partner to various
public and private companies. Mr. Raubenstine s career
at PricewaterhouseCoopers spanned 39 years until his
retirement in June 2002. From July 2002 through February 2006,
Mr. Raubenstine provided accounting and financial advisory
services to various charitable and educational organizations.

George J. Kilroy  serves as President and Chief Executive
Officer of PHH Arval, a position that he has held since March
2001. Mr. Kilroy is responsible for the management of PHH
Arval. From May 1997 to March 2001, Mr. Kilroy served as
Senior Vice President, Business Development and was responsible
for new client sales, client relations and marketing for PHH
Arval s U.S. operations. Mr. Kilroy joined PHH in
1976 as an Account Executive in the Truck and Equipment
Division and has held positions of increasing responsibility,
including head of Diversified Services and Financial Services.

Mark R. Danahy  serves as Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of PHH Mortgage, a position he has held since
April 2001. Mr. Danahy is responsible for directing the
mortgage accounting and financial planning teams, which include
financial reporting, asset valuation and capital markets
accounting, planning and forecasting. Mr. Danahy joined
Cendant Mortgage in December 2000 as Controller. From 1999 to
2000, Mr. Danahy served as Senior Vice President, Capital
Market Operations for GE Capital Market Services, Inc.

William F. Brown  serves as our Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, a position he has held
since February 2005 and Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary of PHH Mortgage. Mr. Brown has served as
Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Cendant Mortgage
since June 1999 and oversees its legal, contract, licensing and
regulatory compliance functions. From June 1997 to June 1999,
Mr. Brown served as Vice President and General Counsel of
Cendant Mortgage. From January 1995 to June 1997, Mr. Brown
served as Counsel in the PHH Corporate Legal Department.

Mark E. Johnson  serves as our Vice President and
Treasurer, a position he has held since February 2005. Prior to
the Spin-Off, Mr. Johnson served as Vice President,
Secondary Marketing of Cendant Mortgage since May 2003 and was
responsible for various funding initiatives and financial
management of certain subsidiary operations. From May 1997 to
May 2003, Mr. Johnson served as Assistant Treasurer of
Cendant Corporation, where he had a range of responsibilities,
including banking and rating agency relations and management of
unsecured funding and securitization.

Michael D. Orner  serves as our Vice President and
Controller, a position he has held since March 2005. Prior to
joining us in March 2005, Mr. Orner was employed by
Millennium Chemicals, Inc. as Corporate Controller from January
2003 through March 2005 and Director of Accounting and Financial
Reporting from December 1999 through December 2002. Prior to
joining Millennium Chemicals, Inc., Mr. Orner served as a
Senior Manager, Audit and Business Advisory Services for
PricewaterhouseCoopers, where he was employed from September
1989 through November 1999.

Board of
Directors  

Our Board of Directors currently consists of seven members. Our
charter divides our Board of Directors into three classes of
Directors having staggered terms, with one class being elected
each year for a new three-year term and until their successors
are elected and qualified. Class I Directors have an
initial term expiring at the annual meeting of our stockholders
for 2006, Class II Directors have an initial term expiring
at the annual meeting of our stockholders for 2007, and
Class III Directors have an initial term expiring at the
annual meeting

186

Table of Contents   

of our stockholders for 2008. The following table sets forth
certain information with respect to the members of our Board of
Directors:

A.B. Krongard  was elected Non-Executive Chairman of the
Board of Directors effective upon the Spin-Off. Since December
2004, Mr. Krongard has been pursuing personal interests.
From March 2001 until December 2004, Mr. Krongard served as
Executive Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. From
February 1998 until March 2001, Mr. Krongard served as
Counselor to the Director of Central Intelligence.
Mr. Krongard previously worked in various capacities at
Alex. Brown, Incorporated ( Alex. Brown ). In 1991,
Mr. Krongard was elected as Chief Executive Officer of
Alex. Brown and assumed the additional duties of Chairman of the
Board of Alex. Brown in 1994. Upon the merger of Alex. Brown
with Bankers Trust Corporation in September 1997,
Mr. Krongard became Chairman of the Board of Bankers Trust
and served in such capacity until joining the Central
Intelligence Agency. Since July 2005, Mr. Krongard has
served as a member of the Board of Directors of Under Armour,
Inc. and is the Chairman of its Audit Committee. Under Armour,
Inc. files reports pursuant to the Exchange Act.

James W. Brinkley  was elected as a Director effective
upon the Spin-Off. In December 2005, Mr. Brinkley became
Vice Chairman of Smith Barney s Global Private Client Group
following Citigroup Inc. s acquisition of Legg Mason Wood
Walker, Incorporated ( LMWW ). Mr. Brinkley
served as a Director of Legg Mason, Inc., a holding company
that, through its subsidiaries, provides financial services to
individuals, institutions, corporations, governments and
government agencies since its formation in 1981.
Mr. Brinkley has served as a Senior Executive Vice
President of Legg Mason, Inc. since December 1983.
Mr. Brinkley became Chairman of LMWW, Legg Mason
Inc. s principal brokerage subsidiary, in February 2004.
Mr. Brinkley previously served as LMWW s Vice Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer from July 2003 through February
2004, as its President from 1985 until July 2003 and as its
Chief Operating Officer from February 1998 until July 2003.

Ann D. Logan  was elected as a Director effective upon the
Spin-Off. Since July 2000, Ms. Logan has worked with
various non-profit organizations and is currently Chair of the
Annual Fund at Bryn Mawr College and a member of that
college s campaign steering committee. Ms. Logan was
an Executive Vice President at the Federal National Mortgage
Association ( Fannie Mae ) from January 1993 to July
2000. Ms. Logan ran the single-family mortgage business at
Fannie Mae from 1998 to 2000 and was the Chief Credit Officer
from 1993 to 1998. From 1989 to 1993, Ms. Logan was a
Senior Vice President in charge of Fannie Mae s Northeast
Regional Office in Philadelphia. Prior to joining Fannie Mae,
Ms. Logan was Assistant Vice President at
Standard & Poor s Corporation in New York. From
1976 to 1980, Ms. Logan worked for the U.S. Senate
Judiciary Committee and served as the Committee Staff Director
in 1980.

Jonathan D. Mariner  was elected as a Director effective
upon the Spin-Off. Mr. Mariner has been the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Major League Baseball
since January 2004. From March 2002 to January 2004,
Mr. Mariner served as the Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Major

187

Table of Contents   

League Baseball. From December 2000 to March 2002,
Mr. Mariner served as the Chief Operating Officer of
Charter Schools U.S.A., a charter school development and
management company. Mr. Mariner was the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Florida Marlins
Baseball Club from February 1992 to December 2000.
Mr. Mariner served on the Board of Directors of
BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. through May 2006 and currently serves
on the Board of Directors of Steiner Leisure, Limited, both of
which file reports pursuant to the Exchange Act.

Francis J. Van Kirk  was elected as a Director effective
July 1, 2005. Since November 2005, Mr. Van Kirk has
been a partner with Heidrick & Struggles, an
international executive search and leadership consulting
services company. Prior to joining Heidrick &
Struggles, Mr. Van Kirk served as the Managing Partner of
PricewaterhouseCoopers  Philadelphia office from 1996
through June 2005. In this role, Mr. Van Kirk oversaw the
integration and coordination of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
lines of service and industry groups to ensure seamless service
to its clients. Mr. Van Kirk began his career with
PricewaterhouseCoopers in 1971 as a Staff Auditor and was
employed in positions of increasing responsibility during his
 34-year  career with
that firm.

Independence of the
Board of Directors  

Under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange
( NYSE ), our Board of Directors is required to
affirmatively determine which Directors are independent and to
disclose such determination in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K 
( Form  10-K ) 
and in the proxy statement for each annual meeting of
stockholders going forward. On March 9, 2006 and
October 23, 2006, our Board of Directors reviewed each
Director s relationships with us in conjunction with our
previously adopted Independence Standards for Directors (the
 Independence Standards ) and Section 303A of the
NYSE s Listed Company Manual ( NYSE Listing
Standards ). A copy of our Independence Standards is
attached to this
Form  10-K  as
Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our corporate website at
 www.phh.com  under the heading  Investor
Relations   Corporate Governance.  A copy of our
Independence Standards is also available to stockholders upon
request, addressed to the Corporate Secretary at 3000 Leadenhall
Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey, 08054 (telephone number:
1-866-PHH-INFO or 1-856-917-1PHH). At those meetings, the Board
affirmatively determined that all non-employee Directors,
Messrs. Brinkley, Krongard, Mariner and Van Kirk and
Ms. Logan, meet the categorical standards under the
Independence Standards and are independent directors under the
NYSE Listing Standards. In March 2005, Mr. Krongard, our
Non-Executive Chairman, became a member of the global Board of
DLA Piper, our principal outside law firm. Based on the nature
of this position, our Board specifically considered
Mr. Krongard s relationship with DLA Piper and
determined that it was not a material relationship for the
purposes of determining his independence. In addition,
Mr. Brinkley, one of our Directors, serves as Vice Chairman
of Smith Barney, which was acquired by the Global Wealth
Management segment of Citigroup Inc. in November 2005. We have
certain relationships with the Corporate and Investment Banking
segment of Citigroup, including financial services, commercial
banking and other transactions. Based on the nature of his
position, our Board specifically considered
Mr. Brinkley s relationship with Citigroup and
determined that it was not a material relationship for the
purposes of determining his independence. Our Board also
determined that Messrs. Edwards and Kilroy, who serve as
executive officers, are not independent directors. Accordingly,
more than two-thirds of the members of our Board of Directors
are independent as required by our Corporate Governance
Guidelines.

Non-Executive
Chairman  

Mr. Krongard serves as our Non-Executive Chairman. The
Non-Executive Chairman is not an officer of PHH and leads all
meetings of our Board of Directors at which he is present. The
Non-Executive Chairman serves on appropriate committees as
requested by the Board of Directors, sets meeting schedules and
agendas and manages information flow to the Board of Directors
to assure appropriate understanding of, and discussion regarding
matters of interest or concern to the Board of Directors. The
Non-Executive Chairman also has such additional powers and
performs such additional duties consistent with organizing and
leading the actions of the Board of Directors as the Board of
Directors may from time to time prescribe.

188

Table of Contents   

Committees of the
Board  

The Board of Directors has a standing Audit Committee,
Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee
consisting of Directors who have been affirmatively determined
to be  independent  as defined in the NYSE Listing
Standards. Each of these Committees operates pursuant to a
written charter approved by the Board of Directors and available
on our corporate website at  www.phh.com  under the heading
 Investor Relations   Corporate Governance. 
A copy of each Committee charter is also available to
stockholders upon request, addressed to the Corporate Secretary
at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey, 08054
(telephone number: 1-866-PHH-INFO or 1-856-917-1PHH). In
addition, the Board of Directors has a standing Executive
Committee which may take certain actions on behalf of the Board
of Directors when the Board is not in session.

Audit Committee   

The Audit Committee assists our Board of Directors in the
oversight of the integrity of our financial statements, our
independent registered public accountants  qualifications
and independence, the performance of our independent registered
public accountants and our internal audit function and our
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The Committee
also oversees our corporate accounting and reporting practices
by meeting with our financial management and independent
registered public accountants to review our financial
statements, quarterly earnings releases and financial data;
appointing and pre-approving all services provided by the
independent registered public accountants that will audit our
financial statements; reviewing the selection of the internal
auditors that provide internal audit services; reviewing the
scope, procedures and results of our audits; and evaluating our
key financial and accounting personnel. The Audit Committee is
comprised of Messrs. Van Kirk (Chairman) and Mariner and
Ms. Logan. Mr. Krongard served as Chairman of the
Committee from the Spin-Off until June 30, 2005 prior to
Mr. Van Kirk s election to the Board of Directors and
to the Audit Committee, which was effective July 1, 2005.
Each member of the Audit Committee is required to have the
ability to read and understand fundamental financial statements.
The Audit Committee is also required to have at least one member
that qualifies as an  audit committee financial
expert  as defined by the rules of the SEC. Our Board of
Directors has determined that Messrs. Mariner and Van Kirk
qualify as audit committee financial experts and are
non-employee, independent directors. During 2005, the Audit
Committee met twelve times. During 2006, the Audit Committee met
twenty-four times through November 17, 2006.

Compensation Committee   

The Compensation Committee determines, approves and reports to
our Board of Directors on all elements of compensation for our
Chief Executive Officer and senior management; reviews and
approves our compensation strategy, including the elements of
total compensation for senior management; reviews and approves
the annual bonus and long-term bonus incentive plans; and
reviews and recommends equity awards for our employees. The
Compensation Committee also assists us in developing
compensation and benefit strategies to attract, develop and
retain qualified employees. The Compensation Committee is
comprised of Messrs. Brinkley (Chairman) and Krongard and
Ms. Logan. During 2005, the Compensation Committee met six
times and acted by unanimous written consent on three occasions.

Corporate Governance Committee   

The Corporate Governance Committee s responsibilities with
respect to its governance function include considering matters
of corporate governance and reviewing and revising our Board of
Directors  Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and our Code of
Conduct for Employees and Officers. The Corporate Governance
Committee identifies, evaluates and recommends nominees for our
Board of Directors for each annual meeting (see  Nomination
Process and Qualifications for Director Nominees  below);
evaluates the composition, organization and governance of our
Board of Directors and its committees; and develops and
recommends corporate governance principles and policies
applicable to us. The Committee is comprised of
Messrs. Krongard (Chairman), Brinkley and Mariner. During
2005, the Corporate Governance Committee met one time.

189

Table of Contents   

Executive Committee   

The Executive Committee may exercise all of the powers of our
Board of Directors when the Board is not in session, including
the power to authorize the issuance of stock, except that the
Executive Committee has no power to alter, amend or repeal our
by-laws or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of
Directors, declare any dividend or make any other distribution
to our stockholders, appoint any member of the Executive
Committee or take any other action which legally may be taken
only by the full Board of Directors. The Executive Committee is
comprised of Messrs. Krongard (Chairman), Edwards and
Kilroy. During 2005, the Executive Committee did not meet.

Board
Meetings  

During 2005, our Board of Directors held five meetings and acted
by unanimous written consent on three occasions. In addition,
the Committees of the Board of Directors held an aggregate of
nineteen meetings and acted by unanimous written consent on
three occasions in that period. In 2005, all incumbent Directors
attended at least 89% of the aggregate number of meetings of the
Board of Directors and Committees of the Board of Directors on
which they served. All Directors are required to attend each
regularly scheduled Board of Directors meeting as well as each
annual meeting of our stockholders (subject to certain limited
exceptions).

Director
Compensation  

The following table sets forth the compensation that will be
paid to our non-employee Directors:

(1)  
     
    Members of our Board of Directors who are also our officers or
    employees do not receive compensation for serving as a Director
    (other than travel-related expenses for meetings held outside of
    our headquarters). The non-employee Director retainers and
    stipends described above are paid in arrears on a quarterly
    basis, half in cash and half in shares of PHH common stock
    ( Common Stock ), which are restricted stock units
    required to be deferred under our Non-Employee Directors
    Deferred Compensation Plan (such deferred Common Stock is
    referred to as  Director RSUs ). These Director RSUs
    are immediately vested and are paid in shares of our Common
    Stock one year after the Director is no longer a member of the
    Board of Directors. A non-employee Director may also elect to
    receive all or a portion of the cash retainer, stipends or any
    other compensation for service as a non-employee Director in the
    form of additional Director RSUs. These Director RSUs are also
    immediately vested and are paid in shares of our Common Stock
    200 days after the Director is no longer a member of the
    Board of Directors. The number of shares of Common Stock to be
    received pursuant to the Director RSU portion of the retainer or
    any other compensation the non-employee Director elects to
    receive in the form of Director RSUs equals the value of the
    compensation being paid in the form of restricted stock units,
    divided by the fair market value of our Common Stock on the date
    on which the compensation would otherwise have been paid. The
    Director RSUs and the shares of Common Stock to be received
    pursuant to those Director RSUs are issued under our 2005 Equity
    and Incentive Plan. Non-employee Directors may not sell or
    receive value from any Director RSU prior to the receipt of the
    Common Stock following termination of service. Following the
    announcement in the delay in the filing of our
    Form  10-K,  the
    Board of Directors determined that the award of Director RSUs to
    be granted to Directors be postponed until we are a current
    filer with the SEC. 

190

Table of Contents   

Corporate
Governance  

Executive Sessions of Non-Management Directors   

Executive sessions of non-management Directors without
management present are held regularly by the Board of Directors
and its Committees to discuss the criteria upon which the
performance of the Chief Executive Officer and other senior
executives is based, the performance of the Chief Executive
Officer against such criteria, the compensation of the Chief
Executive Officer and other senior executives and any other
relevant matters. In 2005, the non-management Directors met in
executive session without management two times.

Presiding Director of Executive Sessions   

Our Board of Directors has also designated Mr. Krongard,
our Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Corporate
Governance Committee, as the presiding Director of executive
sessions of the non-management Directors of the Board of
Directors.

Corporate Governance Guidelines   

The Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance
Guidelines to assist the Board of Directors in monitoring the
effectiveness of decision-making, both at the Board of Directors
and management levels, to enhance long-term stockholder value.
The Corporate Governance Guidelines outline the responsibilities
of the Board of Directors; composition of the Board of
Directors, including the requirement that two-thirds of the
Directors are independent as defined by the NYSE Listing
Standards; Director duties, tenure, retirement and succession;
conduct of Board of Directors and Committee meetings; and the
selection and evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer. Our
Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on our corporate
website at  www.phh.com  under the heading  Investor
Relations   Corporate Governance.  A copy of our
Corporate Governance Guidelines is available to stockholders
upon request, addressed to the Corporate Secretary at 3000
Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey, 08054 (telephone
number: 1-866-PHH-INFO or 1-856-917-1PHH).

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors   

We are committed to conducting business in accordance with the
highest standards of business ethics and complying with
applicable laws, rules and regulations. In furtherance of this
commitment, our Board of Directors promotes ethical behavior and
has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors
(the  Directors Code ) that is applicable to all of
our Directors. The Directors Code provides, among other things:

guidelines for Directors with respect to what constitutes a
    conflict of interest between a Director s private interests
    and interests of PHH; 

a set of standards that must be followed whenever we contemplate
    a business relationship between us and a Director; 

restrictions on competition between our Directors and PHH and
    the use of our confidential information by Directors for their
    personal benefit; and 

disciplinary measures for violations of the Directors Code and
    any other applicable rules and regulations. 

The Directors Code is available on our corporate website at
 www.phh.com  under the heading  Investor
Relations   Corporate Governance.  We will post
any amendments to the Directors Code, or waivers of the
provisions thereof, to our website under the heading
 Investor Relations   Corporate Governance. 
A copy of the Directors Code is also available to stockholders
upon request, addressed to the Corporate Secretary at 3000
Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey, 08054 (telephone
number: 1-866-PHH-INFO or 1-856-917-1PHH).

Code of Conduct for Employees and Officers   

Our Board of Directors has also adopted a Code of Conduct for
Employees and Officers (the  Employees and Officers
Code ) that is applicable to all of our officers and
employees, including our chief executive officer,

191

Table of Contents   

chief financial officer and chief accounting officer. The
Employees and Officers Code provides, among other things:

guidelines for our officers and employees with respect to
    ethical handling of conflicts of interest, including examples of
    the most common types of conflicts of interest that should be
    avoided (e.g., receipt of improper personal benefits from us,
    having an ownership interest in other businesses that may
    compromise an officer s loyalty to us, obtaining outside
    employment with a competitor of ours, etc.); 

a set of standards to promote full, fair, accurate, timely and
    understandable disclosure in periodic reports required to be
    filed by us, including, for example, a specific requirement that
    all accounting records must be duly preserved and must
    accurately reflect our assets and liabilities; 

a requirement to comply with all applicable laws, rules and
    regulations; 

guidance promoting prompt internal communication of any
    suspected violations of the Employees and Officers Code to the
    appropriate person or persons identified in the Employees and
    Officers Code; and 

disciplinary measures for violations of the Employees and
    Officers Code and any other applicable rules and regulations. 

The Employees and Officers Code is available on our corporate
website at  www.phh.com  under the heading  Investor
Relations   Corporate Governance.  We will post
any amendments to the Employees and Officers Code, or waivers of
the provisions thereof for any of our executive officers, to our
website under the heading  Investor Relations  
Corporate Governance.  A copy of the Employees and Officers
Code is also available to stockholders upon request, addressed
to the Corporate Secretary at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel,
New Jersey, 08054 (telephone number: 1-866-PHH-INFO or
1-856-917-1PHH).

Nomination Process and Qualifications for Director
    Nominees   

The Board of Directors has established certain procedures and
criteria for the selection of nominees for election to our Board
of Directors. Pursuant to its charter, the Corporate Governance
Committee is required to identify individuals qualified to
become members of the Board, which shall be consistent with the
Board s criteria for selecting new Directors. The Committee
considers criteria such as diversity, age, skills and experience
so as to enhance the Board of Directors  ability to manage
and direct our affairs and business, including, when applicable,
to enhance the ability of Committees of the Board to fulfill
their duties and/or to satisfy any independence requirements
imposed by law, regulation or NYSE requirement. The Committee is
also responsible for conducting a review of the credentials of
individuals it wishes to recommend to the Board of Directors as
a Director nominee, recommending Director nominees to the Board
of Directors for submission for a shareholder vote at either an
annual meeting of stockholders or at any special meeting of
stockholders called for the purpose of electing Directors,
reviewing the suitability for continued service as a Director of
each Board member when his or her term expires and when he or
she has a significant change in status, including but not
limited to an employment change, and recommending whether such a
Director should be re-nominated to the Board or continue as a
Director.

Our bylaws provide the procedure for stockholders to make
Director nominations either at any annual meeting of
stockholders or at any special meeting of stockholders called
for the purpose of electing Directors. A stockholder who is a
stockholder of record on the date of notice as provided for in
our by-laws and on the record date for the determination of
stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting who gives timely
notice can nominate persons for election to our Board of
Directors either for an annual meeting of stockholders or at any
special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of
electing Directors. The notice must be delivered to or mailed
and received by the Corporate Secretary at 3000 Leadenhall Road,
Mt. Laurel, New Jersey, 08054 (telephone number:
 1-866-PHH-INFO  or
1-856-917-1PHH):

in the case of an annual meeting, not less than 90 days nor
    more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the
    preceding year s annual meeting; provided, however, that in
    the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by
    more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from
    the anniversary date of the preceding year s annual
    meeting, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered 

192

Table of Contents   

not earlier than the 90th day prior to such annual meeting
    and not later than the close of business on the later of the
    60th day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day
    following the day on which public announcement of the date of
    such annual meeting is first made; and 

in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the
    purpose of electing Directors, not later than the close of
    business on the tenth day following the day on which notice of
    the date of the special meeting was mailed or public
    announcement of the date of the special meeting was made,
    whichever first occurs. 

The stockholder s notice to our Corporate Secretary must be
in writing and set forth (i) as to each person whom the
stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a Director, all
information relating to such person that is required to be
disclosed in connection with solicitations of proxies for
election of Directors pursuant to Regulation 14A of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder; and (ii) as to the
stockholder giving the notice:

the name and address of the stockholder as they appear on our
    books and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the
    nomination is made; 

the class or series and number of shares of our capital stock
    which are owned beneficially or of record by the stockholder and
    beneficial owner; 

a description of all arrangements or understandings between the
    stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or
    persons (including their names) pursuant to which the
    nomination(s) are to be made by the stockholder; 

a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in
    person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person(s)
    named in its notice; and 

any other information relating to the stockholder that would be
    required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings
    required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies
    for election of Directors pursuant to Regulation 14A of the
    Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated
    thereunder. 

In addition, the notice must be accompanied by a written consent
of each proposed nominee to be named as a nominee and to serve
as a Director if elected.

Communication with Non-Management Directors   

In accordance with our Corporate Governance Guidelines, all
stockholder and interested party communications to any Director,
the non-management Directors as a group or the Board of
Directors shall be forwarded to the attention of the Chairman of
the Corporate Governance Committee, c/o the Corporate
Secretary, 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey,
08054. The Corporate Secretary shall review all such stockholder
and interested party communications and discard those which
(i) are not related to our business or governance of our
company, (ii) are commercial solicitations which are not
relevant to the Board s responsibilities and duties,
(iii) pose a threat to health or safety or (iv) the
Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee has otherwise
instructed the Corporate Secretary not to forward. The Corporate
Secretary will then forward all relevant stockholder and
interested party communications to the Chairman of the Corporate
Governance Committee for review and dissemination.

Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  

Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our officers and
directors, and persons who own more than ten percent of a
registered class of our equity securities, to file reports of
ownership and changes in ownership on Forms 3, 4 and 5 with
the SEC and the NYSE. Officers, directors and greater than ten
percent beneficial owners are required to furnish us with copies
of all Forms 3, 4 and 5 they file. Based solely on our
review of the copies of such forms we have received, we believe
that all of our officers, directors and greater than ten percent
beneficial owners complied with all filing requirements
applicable to them with respect to transactions during 2005.

193

Table of Contents   

Legal
Proceedings  

In March and April 2006, several class actions were filed
against us, our Chief Executive Officer and our former Chief
Financial Officer in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey. The plaintiffs purport to represent a
class consisting of all persons (other than our officers and
directors and their affiliates) who purchased our Common Stock
between May 12, 2005 and March 1, 2006 (the
 Class Period ). The plaintiffs allege among
other things, that the defendants violated Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and
Rule  10b-5 
thereunder. In addition, two derivative actions were filed in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
against us, our former Chief Financial Officer and each member
of our Board of Directors. One of these derivative actions has
since been voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs. The
remaining derivative action alleges breaches of fiduciary duty
and related claims based on substantially the same factual
allegations as in the class action suits. See  Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  of this
Form  10-K  for
additional information regarding these matters.

Item 11.  
     
      Executive Compensation   

Summary Compensation
Table  

The information below sets forth the compensation of our Chief
Executive Officer, the four most highly compensated executive
officers, our current Chief Financial Officer and one officer
who would have been included in our four most highly compensated
executive officers for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2005 had he served in the capacity listed in the table below at
the end of that fiscal year (collectively referred to as our
 Named Executive Officers ). The services prior to the
Spin-Off were, in some cases, in capacities not equivalent to
those being provided after the Spin-Off. The form and amount of
the compensation to be paid to our Named Executive Officers for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 was determined by
the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors.

194

Table of Contents   

on February 25, 2006. Mr. Edward s base salary
    for 2005 and 2004 was $564,635; however, as a result of how our
    pay periods fell within the calendar year in 2004, there was an
    additional pay period for all employees, which resulted in
    actual base salary payments to Mr. Edwards of $583,704 in
    2004. For 2005, the annual salaries for Messrs. Kilroy,
    Danahy and Brown were increased to $375,000, $292,130 and
    $260,000, respectively, effective as of the Spin-Off for
    Messrs. Kilroy and Brown and as of April 19, 2005 for
    Mr. Danahy. 

(2)  
     
    For 2005, bonus amounts reflect the fact that our performance
    exceeded the targets established under the 2005 Management
    Incentive Plans. These bonuses will be paid in the fourth
    quarter of 2006 as a result of the delay in completing the 2005
    financial statements. For 2004, (i) bonus amounts for
    Messrs. Kilroy and Cashen represent profit-sharing
    performance-based bonuses under the Fleet Management Services
    segment s bonus program and (ii) no profit-sharing
    performance-based bonuses were paid to Messrs. Edwards,
    Danahy, Brown or Suter under the former Mortgage Services
    segment s bonus program. For 2003, the amounts shown
    reflect all bonuses paid for such year, including
    performance-based profit-sharing bonuses paid in the first
    quarter of the year following the end of the performance year. 

(3)  
     
    These amounts include the value of perquisites including a
    company car, gasoline and financial planning which do not exceed
    $50,000 or 10% of the annual salary and bonus for any Named
    Executive Officer. These other annual compensation amounts also
    include amounts reimbursed during 2005 for the payment of taxes
    on the value of the perquisites by each of Messrs. Edwards,
    Kilroy, Danahy, Brown, Cashen and Suter of $3,944, $1,257,
    $4,296, $4,228, $1,761 and $4,232, respectively. 

(4)  
     
    During 2005, Messrs. Edwards, Kilroy, Danahy, Brown, Cashen
    and Suter were granted restricted stock units payable in shares
    of our Common Stock ( PHH RSUs ) (i) to convert
    certain existing restricted stock units in Cendant common stock
    granted in 2003 ( 2003 Cendant RSUs ) and 2004
    ( 2004 Cendant RSUs ) to PHH RSUs at the time of the
    Spin-Off and (ii) as part of our 2005 annual long-term
    incentive grant of PHH RSUs to certain management employees (the
     2005 Annual Award ). Upon vesting of a PHH RSU, the
    Named Executive Officer becomes entitled to receive one share of
    our Common Stock. 

195

Table of Contents   

(5)  
     
    The stock options reported in this column reflect options to
    purchase our Common Stock, except the 2003 stock option award to
    Mr. Edwards which was an option to purchase Cendant stock,
    the unvested portion of which was converted to options to
    purchase our Common Stock at the time of the Spin-Off. See
       Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year  for
    information regarding stock option awards in 2005. 

(6)  
     
    Payments included in these amounts for 2005 consist of matching
    contributions to a 401(k) plan maintained by PHH (the
     Defined Contribution Match ) and life and long-term
    disability insurance coverage. These amounts do not include
    payments to Messrs. Edwards and Kilroy from a non-qualified
    deferred compensation plan maintained by Cendant (the
     Cendant Plan ), which were triggered when they ceased
    to be participants in the Cendant Plan as a result of the
    Spin-Off. Messrs. Edwards and Kilroy each received payment
    of previously reported deferred salary and/or bonus which were
    contributed to the Cendant Plan, Cendant matching funds and any
    earnings thereon in the sum of $1,123,366 and $369,711,
    respectively. For 2005, the Defined Contribution Match, life and
    long-term disability insurance coverage and deferred
    compensation payments for the following Named Executive Officers
    were as follows: 

(7)  
     
    Effective February 23, 2006, Mr. Raubenstine joined
    PHH as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. For
    2006, Mr. Raubenstine will receive an annual salary of
    $1,000,000 and will not be eligible for a bonus for 2006. He
    will also receive an award of shares of our Common Stock
    equivalent to $250,000, which will be granted in two equal
    installments (i) when we become current in our filing
    obligations with the SEC and are permitted to issue shares of
    our Common Stock from our 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan and
    (ii) the later of February 23, 2007 or the date on
    which we become a current filer with the SEC. 

(8)  
     
    Effective February 23, 2006, Mr. Cashen ceased serving
    as PHH s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer and assumed the role of Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Planning and Investor Relations. On September 20, 2006,
    Mr. Cashen resigned his employment and entered into a
    Release and Restrictive Covenants Agreement with us, which
    provides a release of all claims by Mr. Cashen, except for
    certain 

196

Table of Contents   

indemnification and benefit claims; a non-competition
    restriction for a period of five years; and non-disclosure and
    non-disparagement restrictions. The agreement provides for a
    one-time lump sum cash payment of $1,864,800, his company
    vehicle, vesting of outstanding stock options and restricted
    stock units and payment of Mr. Cashen s 2005 bonus in
    the event that the other Named Executive Officers are awarded
    such bonuses under the 2005 Management Incentive Plan. 

(9)  
     
    Effective August 12, 2005, Joseph Suter resigned as
    President and Chief Executive Officer of PHH Mortgage and
    continued his employment with PHH Mortgage as Senior Vice
    President, Subsidiary Operations. Mr. Suter requested this
    change in his role with PHH Mortgage in order to pursue a
    master s degree in Elementary Education for the purpose of
    meeting the requirements necessary to teach elementary school.
    Mr. Suter started as an elementary school teacher in
    September 2006 and is serving as a part-time employee of PHH
    Mortgage. 

Option Grants in Last
Fiscal Year  

The following table sets forth the options to purchase shares of
our Common Stock ( Stock Options ) that were awarded
to the Named Executive Officers during the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005. Stock Options listed in the table with
expiration dates prior to the year 2015 represent awards
converted from certain options to purchase Cendant common stock
options which were awarded prior to the Spin-Off. See
 Conversion of Cendant Stock Options and Restricted Stock
Units into PHH Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units 
below for additional information.

(1)  
     
    During 2005, certain of our Named Executive Officers were
    awarded options to purchase our Common Stock for one or more of
    the following: (i) the conversion of certain outstanding
    options to purchase Cendant common stock as a result of the
    Spin-Off on February 1, 2005, (ii) an initial or
     charter  grant to certain management employees
    following the Spin-Off on March 3, 2005, and
    (iii) performance-based awards as part 

197

Table of Contents   

of our 2005 Annual Award on June 28, 2005. In connection
    with the Spin-Off, options to purchase Cendant common stock with
    exercise prices of $18.00 and higher held by
    Messrs. Edwards, Kilroy, Danahy, Brown, Cashen and Suter
    were converted into options to purchase an equivalent number of
    shares of our Common Stock on substantially similar terms and
    conditions. For a description of the manner in which options
    relating to Cendant common stock were converted into options
    relating to our Common Stock, see  Item 12. Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   Equity Compensation Plan
    Information.  In addition, the unvested portion of
    Mr. Edwards  options to purchase Cendant common stock
    granted on April 22, 2003, with an exercise price of
    $13.64 per share, was also converted into options to
    purchase an equivalent number of shares of our Common Stock.
    Messrs. Edwards, Danahy, Brown, Cashen and Suter received
    360,764, 79,556, 67,696, 104,909 and 216,848 options to purchase
    our Common Stock as of the date of the Spin-Off, respectively,
    which were converted from existing options to purchase Cendant
    common stock. 

(2)  
     
    These values were calculated using the Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model based on dividend yield of 0%, expected
    volatility of 30% for all stock option awards, and the following
    assumptions for each Stock Option award with the expiration date
    specified: 

(3)  
     
    These options to purchase our Common Stock vested on
    February 10, 2005. 

(4)  
     
    These options to purchase our Common Stock vest in three equal
    installments on April 22, 2005, April 22, 2006 and
    April 22, 2007 subject to continued employment. 

(5)  
     
    These options to purchase our Common Stock will vest on
    March 3, 2009 subject to continued employment. 

(6)  
     
    These options to purchase our Common Stock vest annually in
    three equal installments beginning on June 28, 2009,
    subject to continued employment and performance acceleration in
    25% increments for achievement of performance targets based on
    our pre-tax income after minority interest, excluding certain
    Spin-Off related expenses, as established by our Compensation
    Committee for each of the four fiscal years ending prior to
    June 28, 2009. 

Conversion of Cendant
Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units into PHH Stock Options
and Restricted Stock Units  

In connection with the Spin-Off, outstanding stock options to
purchase Cendant common stock ( Cendant Options ) held
by our employees with an exercise price of at least
$18.00 per share were converted into stock options to
purchase our Common Stock ( PHH Options ).
Additionally, the unvested portion of Mr. Edwards 
Cendant Options granted on April 22, 2003, with an exercise
price of $13.64 per share, was also converted into PHH
Options. Each Cendant Option was converted into 1.0928 PHH
Options based on a conversion ratio, with the total rounded down
to the nearest whole number. The conversion ratio was determined
by dividing the last trade of Cendant common stock on
January 31, 2005, or $23.55, by the first trade of our
Common Stock on February 1, 2005, or $21.55. The exercise
price for the PHH Options was determined by dividing the
exercise price for the Cendant Options by the conversion ratio,
rounded up to the nearest cent.

In addition, the outstanding restricted stock units related to
Cendant common stock ( Cendant RSUs ) held by our
employees were converted PHH RSUs. The number of PHH RSUs
received by each of our employees equaled the number of Cendant
RSUs multiplied by the conversion ratio.

198

Table of Contents   

Aggregated Option
Exercises in 2005 and Year-End Option Values  

The following table summarizes the exercise of options to
purchase our Common Stock by the following Named Executive
Officers during the last fiscal year and the value of the
unexercised options held by such officers as of the end of such
fiscal year.

(1)  
     
    These columns represent the difference on December 31, 2005
    between the closing market price of our Common Stock
    ($28.02 per share) and the option exercise price. 

(2)  
     
    In conjunction with Mr. Suter s resignation as
    President and Chief Executive Officer of PHH Mortgage in August
    2005, Mr. Suter forfeited 13,874 options to purchase our
    Common Stock awarded on June 28, 2005. These options are
    not included in this table. 

PHH Corporation Pension Plan   

Effective as of the Spin-Off, we adopted a defined benefit
employee pension plan, named the PHH Corporation Pension Plan
(the  PHH Plan ), which is identical in all material
respects to the Cendant Corporation Pension Plan. Benefits under
the Cendant Pension Plan were frozen for participants including
our Named Executive Officers. The PHH Plan assumed all
liabilities and obligations owed under the Cendant Pension Plan
to Cendant Pension Plan participants who were actively employed
by us at the time of the Spin-Off, including
Messrs. Edwards, Kilroy, Brown, Cashen and Suter. Certain
of our employees, including Messrs. Raubenstine and Danahy,
were not participants in the Cendant Pension Plan and are not
participants in the PHH Plan. The benefits under the PHH Plan
that are accrued to our Named Executive Officers were frozen and
such officers may not accrue further benefits under the PHH Plan.

Each of the Named Executive Officers, other than
Messrs. Raubenstine and Danahy, is eligible to receive a
benefit under the PHH Plan based on 2% of their final average
compensation times the number of their years of benefit service
(up to a maximum of 30 years) minus 50% of their annualized
primary Social Security benefit. For purposes of determining the
Named Executive Officers  benefits under the PHH Plan,
their final average compensation and years of benefit service
shall be based on compensation and service earned prior to
October 31, 1999 (October 31, 2004, for
Mr. Kilroy). The Named Executive Officers will not accrue
any additional benefits under the PHH Plan or under any other
defined benefit plan of PHH or Cendant after October 31,
1999 (October 31, 2004 for Mr. Kilroy).

199

Table of Contents   

The table below shows the estimated annual benefit payable to
each such Named Executive Officer commencing at age 65
under the PHH Plan. For Mr. Suter, the amount also includes
benefits payable under a supplemental pension plan formerly
sponsored by us which provides additional benefits which
otherwise would have been payable but for Internal Revenue
Service limitations. The benefits payable to each of the
following Named Executive Officers have been frozen and such
officers may not accrue further benefits under the PHH Plan or
under any other defined benefit plan provided by us or Cendant.
The benefits set forth in the table below for each of the
following Named Executive Officers reflect straight-line annuity
amounts and reflect any offsets for estimated Social Security
benefits.

Compensation Committee
Report on Executive Compensation  

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors is
comprised of three independent, non-executive directors who are
responsible for overseeing our executive compensation policies
and programs. The Board of Directors adopted a Compensation
Committee Charter (the  Charter ) which sets forth the
purpose, composition, authority and responsibilities of the
Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee evaluates the
performance, base salaries, annual and long-term cash and equity
incentives, and other compensation for executive officers,
including the Chief Executive Officer.

Executive Officer Compensation Policies.  The purpose of
our executive compensation policies is to attract, retain and
motivate qualified executive officers to manage our business in
order to maximize stockholder value. Our executive officer
compensation policies are intended to facilitate the achievement
of our business strategies through aligning compensation with
our company s performance by including variable, at-risk
compensation that is dependant upon meeting specified
performance targets and aligning the interests of our executive
officers with the interests of the stockholders by providing
equity-based compensation as a component of total compensation.
The Compensation Committee does not rely upon a fixed formula or
specific numerical criteria in determining an executive
officer s total compensation, and considers our
company s and personal performance criteria, competitive
compensation levels for companies in similar businesses and of
similar size, where available, the economic environment as well
as the recommendation of an independent executive compensation
consultant. The Compensation Committee exercises its business
judgment based on all of these criteria.

Components of Executive Compensation.  The material
elements of executive compensation arrangements include base
salary, variable compensation programs, and long-term incentive
awards.

Base Salaries.  The Compensation Committee is responsible
    for determining the salary of our Chief Executive Officer and
    other senior executive officers, which includes the approval of
    annual adjustments to their base compensation. Salary
    recommendations for executive officers, other than the Chief
    Executive Officer, are also reviewed annually by the chief
    executive officer, chief financial officer and senior vice
    president of human resources for the appropriate operating
    subsidiary. The Compensation Committee assesses salary levels
    based upon the nature of the position and the contribution,
    achievement, experience and tenure of the executive officer as
    well as economic factors and competitive compensation levels for
    companies in similar businesses and of similar size, where
    available. The base salaries of the Named Executive Officers for
    2005 were established by Cendant prior to the Spin-Off and
    reviewed and approved by the Compensation Committee following
    the Spin-Off. The Compensation Committee received market
    research from an independent executive compensation consultant
    regarding comparable compensation programs for similarly
    situated executive officers at companies in similar business and
    of similar size, 

200

Table of Contents   

where available. The Compensation Committee considers such
    advice and compensation surveys in connection with establishing
    salaries for executive officers. 

Variable Compensation Programs.  Our executive officers
    may receive additional compensation through incentive programs
    or bonus programs designed to motivate eligible recipients to
    achieve our strategic objectives. Each executive officer is
    eligible to receive an annual performance bonus based upon the
    performance of the individual executive officer and operating
    segment and/or Company performance goals established by the
    Compensation Committee. Those bonus payments are subject to the
    approval of the Compensation Committee. The performance goals
    are adjusted each year to coincide with our overall strategy. In
    February 2005, the Compensation Committee established
    performance targets based upon the achievement of target return
    on equity and net income for 2005 under the 2005 Management
    Incentive Plans. As a result of the significant changes to our
    business operations following the Spin-Off, the Compensation
    Committee amended the 2005 Management Incentive Plans in
    November 2005 establishing pre-tax income after minority
    interest as the performance target replacing return on equity
    and net income. The Compensation Committee has determined that
    the performance target for 2005 had been exceeded and authorized
    the payment of cash bonuses in excess of 100% of the payout
    target in accordance with the terms of the 2005 Management
    Incentive Plans to our executive officers, including the Chief
    Executive Officer. The bonuses paid to our Named Executive
    Officers for 2005 are set forth in the    Summary
    Compensation Table.  

Long-Term Incentive Plan.  The Compensation Committee
    administers our 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan (the
     Plan ), which provides for equity awards, including
    restricted stock units and options to purchase our Common Stock.
    The Compensation Committee considers equity awards to executive
    officers an appropriate and effective method of retaining key
    management employees and aligning the interest of employees with
    those stockholders. Eligibility for stock awards, the number of
    shares underlying each award and the terms and conditions of
    each award are determined by the Compensation Committee upon
    consultation with management and an independent executive
    compensation consultant. Following the Spin-Off, the
    Compensation Committee authorized certain conversion awards
    which replaced Cendant stock awards with comparable awards of
    our Common Stock in the form of restricted stock units and stock
    options. On March 3, 2005, following the Spin-Off, the
    Compensation Committee granted stock options to certain
    executive officers and other employees (the  Charter
    Grant ), all of which vest on March 3, 2009. In
    addition, on June 28, 2005, the Compensation Committee
    awarded service-based restricted stock units and/or stock
    options to executive officers with provisions for accelerated
    vesting upon the achievement of certain annual performance
    targets established by the Committee for 2005, 2006, 2007 and
    2008. Additional information with respect to the Charter Grant
    and 2005 Equity Award to our Named Executive Officers is set
    forth above under    Summary Compensation
    Table  and    Option Grants in Last Fiscal
    Year.  

Chief Executive Officer Compensation.  Mr. Edwards
has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since
the Spin-Off and prior to that was the President and Chief
Executive Officer of PHH Mortgage from February 1996 until the
Spin-Off. Since August 2005, Mr. Edwards has also resumed
his role as President and Chief Executive Officer of PHH
Mortgage in addition to his role with the Company. Immediately
after the Spin-Off, we entered into an employment agreement with
Mr. Edwards. That agreement had a term ending on
February 1, 2008, and provided for a minimum base salary of
$625,000 and participation in employee benefit plans generally
available to our executive officers. Mr. Edwards 
agreement provided for an annual incentive award with a target
amount equal to no less than 100% of his base salary, subject to
attainment of performance goals, and grants of long-term
incentive awards based upon such terms and conditions as
determined by our board of directors or our Compensation
Committee. In addition, Mr. Edwards was entitled to receive
an equity incentive award under the employment agreement
relating to our Common Stock that would have vested based on the
achievement of specified performance goals and would have had a
value on the grant date of $2.5 million, which value would
have been based on such performance criteria determined by our
Compensation Committee. After the Spin-Off, we generally do not
enter into employment agreements with any of our executive
officers. In accordance with this practice, we and
Mr. Edwards terminated his employment agreement effective
February 24, 2005, and Mr. Edwards  employment
with us is now on an at-will basis.

201

Table of Contents   

The Compensation Committee reviewed and approved
Mr. Edwards  compensation for 2005, which included a
base salary of $564,635 and target bonus payout under the 2005
Management Incentive Plan of 100% of base salary upon
achievement of the 2005 performance target. The 2005 Management
Incentive Plan permits a payout of up to 125% of the target
bonus payout in the event the performance target is exceeded. As
previously discussed, the Compensation Committee established the
performance target as pre-tax income after minority interest
excluding certain Spin-Off related expenses in 2005.
Mr. Edwards received a bonus award of $643,684 as a result
of us exceeding the established performance target for pre-tax
income after minority interest. As noted above, certain awards
of Cendant stock options and restricted stock units for the
years prior to 2005 were converted to shares of restricted stock
units and options to purchase our Common Stock effective as of
the Spin-Off. These awards did not relate to
Mr. Edwards  performance in 2005 and continued the
vesting schedule provided under the original awards agreements.
Mr. Edwards received a stock option award on March 3,
2005 under the Charter Grant of 49,229 options to purchase our
Common Stock, all of which vest on March 3, 2009, and an
award of 25,028 stock options and 11,505 restricted stock units
on June 28, 2005, which vest annually in three equal
installments beginning on June 28, 2009, subject to
performance acceleration in 25% increments for achievement of
performance targets established by the Compensation Committee
for each of the four fiscal years ending prior to June 28,
2009. Mr. Edwards  base salary was not changed for
2006.

Deductibility for Compensation.  In accordance with
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the
deductibility for federal corporate tax purposes of compensation
paid to certain of our individual executive officers in excess
of $1 million in any year may be restricted. The
Compensation Committee believes that it is in the best interests
of our stockholders to comply with such tax law, while still
maintaining the goals of our compensation programs. Accordingly,
where it is deemed necessary and in our best interests to
continue to attract and retain the best possible executive
talent and to motivate such executives to achieve the goals
inherent in our business strategy, the Compensation Committee
will recommend compensation to executive officers which may
exceed the limits of deductibility. In this regard, certain
portions of compensation paid to the Named Executive Officers
may not be deductible for federal income tax purposes under
Section 162(m).

Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors  

James W. Brinkley (Chairman)  

A.B. Krongard  

Ann D. Logan  

The report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors should not be deemed to be  soliciting
material  or to be  filed  with the SEC, except
to the extent that we specifically request that the information
be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate it
by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of
1933 (the  Securities Act ) or the Exchange Act. Such
information will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference
into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by
reference.

Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation  

The Compensation Committee is comprised entirely of
 outside directors  within the meaning of the
regulations under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended,  non-employee directors 
under SEC
Rule  16b-3,  and
 independent  directors as affirmatively determined by
the Board of Directors pursuant to the NYSE Listing Standards.
The members of the Compensation Committee are the individuals
named as signatories to the report immediately preceding this
paragraph. None of the members of the Compensation Committee are
our former officers or employees.

202

Table of Contents   

Employment contracts
and termination, severance and change in control
arrangements  

Employment Agreements   

Immediately after the Spin-Off, we entered into an employment
agreement with Terence W. Edwards, our President and Chief
Executive Officer with a term ending on February 1, 2008.
In addition to providing for a minimum base salary of $625,000
and participation in employee benefit plans generally available
to our executive officers, Mr. Edwards  agreement
provided for an annual incentive award with a target amount
equal to no less than 100% of his base salary, subject to
attainment of performance goals, and grants of long-term
incentive awards upon such terms and conditions as determined by
our board of directors or our Compensation Committee. In
addition, Mr. Edwards was entitled to receive an equity
incentive award under the employment agreement relating to our
Common Stock that would have vested based on the achievement of
specified performance goals and would have had a value on the
grant date of $2.5 million, which value would have been
based on such performance criteria determined by our
Compensation Committee. After the Spin-Off, we generally do not
enter into employment agreements with any of our executive
officers. In accordance with this practice, we and
Mr. Edwards terminated his employment agreement and
Mr. Edwards  employment with us is on an at-will basis.

Change in Control Arrangements   

Generally, all stock options granted to each of the Named
Executive Officers under our 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan will
become fully and immediately vested and exercisable, and all
restricted stock units will vest upon the occurrence of any
change in control transaction affecting our company.

203

Table of Contents   

Performance
Graph  

The following graph and table compare the cumulative total
shareholder return on our Common Stock with (i) the Russell
2000 Index and (ii) the Russell 2000 Financial Services
Index. On January 31, 2005, all shares of our Common Stock
were spun-off from Cendant to the holders of Cendant s
common stock on a pro rata basis. Our Common Stock began trading
on the NYSE on February 1, 2005. Cendant distributed one
share of our Common Stock for every twenty shares of Cendant
common stock outstanding on the record date for the distribution.

The graph and chart above assume that $100 was invested in the
Russell 2000 Index, the Russell 2000 Financial Services Index
and our Common Stock on February 1, 2005. Total shareholder
returns assume reinvestment of dividends. The stock price
performance depicted in the graph and table above may not be
indicative of future stock price performance.

204

Table of Contents   

Item 12.  
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

The following table sets forth the beneficial ownership of our
outstanding Common Stock, as of September 15, 2006, by
those persons who are known to us to be beneficial owners of 5%
or more of our Common Stock, by each of our Directors, by each
of our Named Executive Officers and by our Directors and
Executive Officers as a group.

*  
     
    Represents less than one percent. 

(1)  
     
    Based upon information furnished to us by the respective
    stockholders or contained in filings made with the SEC. For
    purposes of this table, if a person has or shares voting or
    investment power with respect to any of our Common Stock, then
    such Common Stock is considered beneficially owned by that
    person under the SEC rules. Shares of our Common Stock
    beneficially owned include direct and indirect ownership of
    shares, stock options and restricted stock units granted to our
    Directors and Executive Officers which are vested or will become
    vested within sixty days of September 15, 2006, and shares
    of our Common Stock, the receipt of which has been deferred
    until retirement from our Board of Directors ( Deferred
    Shares ). The award of stock options and restricted stock
    units which were scheduled to vest during 2006 for Executive
    Officers and 

205

Table of Contents   

Deferred Shares scheduled to be awarded to Directors have been
    postponed until we become current with our SEC filing
    requirements and have not been included in this table. Unless
    otherwise indicated in the table, the address of all listed
    stockholders is c/o PHH Corporation, 3000 Leadenhall Road,
    Mt. Laurel, New Jersey, 08054. 

(2)  
     
    Based upon 53,763,021 shares of our Common Stock
    outstanding as of September 15, 2006. Shares which vest or
    will become vested within sixty days of September 15, 2006
    are deemed outstanding for the purpose of computing the
    percentage ownership. 

(3)  
     
    Reflects beneficial ownership of shares of our Common Stock as
    reported in a Schedule 13F filed with the SEC by Farallon
    Capital Management, L.L.C. on behalf of itself and its
    affiliates on August 14, 2006. 

(4)  
     
    Reflects beneficial ownership of shares of our Common Stock as
    reported in a Schedule 13F filed with the SEC by Citadel
    Limited Partnership on behalf of itself and its affiliates on
    August 11, 2006. 

(5)  
     
    Reflects beneficial ownership of shares of our Common Stock as
    reported in a Schedule 13F filed with the SEC by
    SAB Capital Partners on behalf of itself and its affiliates
    on August 14, 2006. 

(6)  
     
    Reflects beneficial ownership of shares of our Common Stock as
    reported in a Schedule 13F filed with the SEC by Maverick
    Capital, Ltd. on behalf of itself and its affiliates on
    August 14, 2006. 

(7)  
     
    Reflects beneficial ownership of shares of our Common Stock as
    reported in a Schedule 13F filed with the SEC by
    Dimensional Fund Advisors Inc. on behalf of itself and its
    affiliates on August 14, 2006. 

(8)  
     
    Represents 10,056 shares of our Common Stock directly held
    by Mr. Edwards and options to
    purchase 347,194 shares of our Common Stock. 

(9)  
     
    Represents 9,184 shares of our Common Stock directly held
    by Mr. Kilroy and 635 shares of our Common Stock held
    in Mr. Kilroy s 401(k) account. 

206

Table of Contents   

Equity Compensation
Plan Information  

Equity Compensation Plan Information   

The table below reflects the number of securities issued and the
number of securities remaining which were available for issuance
under the 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan as of December 31,
2005.

(a)    
       
      (b)    
       
      (c)    

Number of Securities    

Remaining Available for    

Number of Securities to    

Future Issuance Under    

be Issued Upon    
       
      Weighted-Average    
       
      Equity Compensation    

Exercise of Outstanding    
       
      Exercise Price of    
       
      Plans (Excluding    

Options, Warrants    
       
      Outstanding Options,    
       
      Securities Reflected in    

Plan Category  
       
      and Rights    
       
      Warrants and Rights    
       
      Column (a))    

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1)

5,258,366 
     (2) 
       
     $ 
     19.40 
     (3) 

1,261,104 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

Total

5,258,366 

$ 
     19.40 

1,261,104 

(1)  
     
    Our 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan was approved on
    January 14, 2005 by Cendant as our sole shareholder. 

(2)  
     
    Includes 1,716,987 restricted stock units and 3,541,379 Stock
    Options, of which 959,946 restricted stock units and 64,438
    Stock Options are subject to performance-based vesting at target
    levels. Depending upon the level of achievement of these
    performance goals, the performance-based units may not be fully
    paid out as shares. 

(3)  
     
    Because there is no exercise price associated with the
    restricted stock units, those restricted stock units described
    in Note 2 above are not included in the weighted-average
    exercise price calculation. 

Item 13.  
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

Spin-Off from
Cendant  

Prior to the Spin-Off, we entered into various agreements with
Cendant and Cendant s real estate services division in
connection with the Spin-Off (collectively, the  Spin-Off
Agreements ), including (i) the Mortgage Venture
Operating Agreement and related trademark license, management
services, marketing agreements, and other agreements for the
purpose of originating and selling mortgage loans primarily
sourced through NRT Incorporated, Cartus Corporation and Title
Research Group LLC, which commenced operations in October 2005,
and is consolidated within our financial statements; (ii) a
strategic relationship agreement whereby Cendant s real
estate services division and we have agreed on non-competition,
indemnification and exclusivity arrangements; (iii) the
Separation Agreement that requires the exchange of information
with Cendant and other provisions regarding our separation from
Cendant; (iv) the Tax Sharing Agreement governing the
allocation of liability for taxes between Cendant and us,
indemnification for liability for taxes and responsibility for
preparing and filing tax returns and defending tax contests, as
well as other tax-related matters; and (v) the Transition
Services Agreement governing certain continuing arrangements
between us and Cendant to provide for the transition of our
company from a wholly owned subsidiary of Cendant to an
independent, publicly traded company. For a discussion of these
agreements, see  Item 1. Business  
Arrangements with Cendant Corporation  in this
Form  10-K. 

Prior to and as part of the Spin-Off, Cendant made a cash
contribution to us of $100 million and we distributed
assets net of liabilities of $577 million to Cendant. Such
amount included the historical cost of the net assets of our
former relocation and fuel card businesses, certain other assets
and liabilities per the Spin-Off Agreements and the net amount
of forgiveness of certain payables and receivables, including
income taxes, between us, our former relocation and fuel card
businesses and Cendant.

207

Table of Contents   

On May 12, 2005, PHH Broker Partner and Realogy Venture
Partner entered into an amendment (the  Amendment ) to
the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement. The Amendment extends
to ten years the time period after which Realogy Venture Partner
may provide a two-year notice of termination in connection with
the Mortgage Venture, other than as the result of material
breach and certain other events. For additional discussion of
the Amendment, see Note 23,  Related Party
Transactions  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in this
Form  10-K. 

Corporate Expenses and
Cash Dividends  

Prior to the Spin-Off and in the ordinary course of business, we
were allocated certain expenses from Cendant for corporate
functions including executive management, accounting, tax,
finance, human resources, information technology, legal and
facility-related expenses. Cendant allocated these corporate
expenses to subsidiaries conducting ongoing operations based on
a percentage of the subsidiaries  forecasted revenues. Such
expenses amounted to $3 million, $32 million and
$36 million during the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, at December 31,
2004, we had a $131 million receivable from Cendant,
representing amounts paid by us on behalf of Cendant, net of the
accumulation of corporate allocations and amounts paid by
Cendant on behalf of us. Amounts receivable from Cendant were
included in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 2004. There was no such receivable from
Cendant as of December 31, 2005.

During each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
we paid Cendant $140 million (or $2.66 per share after
giving effect to the 52,684-for-one stock split effected
January 28, 2005) of cash dividends. We did not pay cash
dividends to Cendant during the year ended December 31,
2005. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we
transferred a subsidiary owned by Speedy Title and Appraisal
Review Services LLC to a wholly owned subsidiary of Cendant not
within our ownership structure. The net assets of the subsidiary
transferred were $16 million.

Pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement among us, Cendant
and Cendant Operations, Inc., in 2005 we received approximately
$398,000 in fees for certain information technology support,
equipment and services at or from our data center, and certain
personal computer desktop support for approximately 100 Cendant
personnel, located at our facility in Sparks, Maryland. During
2005, we also received approximately $434,000 in fees for
information technology services as well as security, maintenance
and related services provided under other agreements with
Realogy Corporation ( Realogy ) and certain Realogy
affiliates, subsidiaries and business units.

Certain Business
Relationships  

A.B. Krongard, our Non-Executive Chairman, is also a member of
the global Board of our principal outside law firm, DLA Piper.
Our legal fees and disbursements paid to DLA Piper during 2005
did not exceed 5% of DLA Piper s gross revenues for 2005.

James W. Brinkley, one of our Directors, serves as Vice Chairman
of Smith Barney, which was acquired by Citigroup, Inc. as part
of Citigroup s Global Wealth Management segment in a
transaction with Legg Mason, Inc. in December 2005. We have
certain relationships with the Corporate and Investment Banking
segment of Citigroup, including financial services, commercial
banking and other transactions. Citigroup is a lender in our
$1.3 billion Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving
Credit Agreement, $500 million Revolving Credit Agreement
and the Base Indenture and supplements thereto for Chesapeake
Funding LLC (the  Citigroup Agreements ). The fees
paid to Citigroup, and indebtedness incurred by us, pursuant to
these relationships did not exceed 5% of either Citigroup s
or our revenues during 2005, or our total consolidated assets as
of December 31, 2005. During 2006, we have incurred
additional indebtedness with Citigroup under the Citigroup
Agreements totaling approximately $767 million as of
June 30, 2006.

We have employed Bradford C. Burgess, who serves as a Director,
Business Development at PHH Arval, since 2001. During 2005, he
became the  son-in -law
of George J. Kilroy. Mr. Burgess received compensation in
excess of $60,000 for 2005 and was eligible to participate in
employee benefit plans available to employees generally.

208

Table of Contents   

Indebtedness of
Management  

One or more of our mortgage lending subsidiaries has made, in
the ordinary course of business, mortgage loans and/or home
equity lines of credit to directors and executive officers and
their immediate families. Such mortgage loans and/or home equity
lines of credit were made on substantially the same terms,
including interest rates and collateral requirements, as those
prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with our
other customers generally, and they did not involve more than
the normal risk of collectibility or present other unfavorable
features. Generally, we sell these mortgage loans and/or home
equity lines of credit, soon after origination, into the
secondary market in the ordinary course of business.

Item 14.  
     
      Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

Our Audit Committee is responsible for pre-approving all audit
services and permitted non-audit services, including the fees
and terms thereof, to be performed for us and our subsidiaries
by our independent registered public accounting firm (the
 Independent Auditor ). The Audit Committee has
adopted a pre-approval policy and implemented procedures which
provide that all engagements of our Independent Auditor are
reviewed and pre-approved by the Audit Committee, subject to the
 de minimis  exception for non-audit services described in
Section 10A(i)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act which our Audit
Committee approves prior to the completion of the audit. The
pre-approval policy also permits the delegation of pre-approval
authority to a member of the Audit Committee between meetings of
the Audit Committee, and any such approvals are reviewed and
ratified by the Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting.

For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
professional services were performed for us by
Deloitte & Touche LLP, our Independent Auditor,
pursuant to the oversight of our Audit Committee following the
Spin-Off and subject to the processes used by Cendant s
Audit Committee to approve and monitor services by its
Independent Auditor prior to the Spin-Off. Audit and
audit-related fees aggregated $16.8 million and
$2.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. In 2004, Cendant was billed certain fees
directly by our Independent Auditor. Set forth below are the
fees billed to us by Deloitte & Touche LLP, the member
firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu and their respective
affiliates. All fees and services were approved in accordance
with the Audit Committee s pre-approval policy since the
Spin-Off.

Audit Fees.  The aggregate fees billed for professional
services rendered by the Independent Auditor were
$16.6 million and $1.4 million for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and, for 2005,
primarily related to the annual audits of the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K  and our
internal control over financial reporting, as required by
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the reviews
of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  and
services provided in connection with regulatory and statutory
filings.

Audit-Related Fees.  Audit-related fees billed during the
year ended December 31, 2005 were $0.2 million and
primarily related to comfort letters related to registration
statements and securitization transactions. Audit-related fees
of $0.7 million billed during the year ended
December 31, 2004 primarily related to due diligence
pertaining to acquisitions, comfort letters and consents related
to registration statements and agreed-upon procedures.

209

Table of Contents   

Tax Fees.  The aggregate fees billed for tax services
during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were
$0.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively. These
fees related to tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning for
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

All Other Fees.  The aggregate fees billed for all other
services during the year ended December 31, 2005 were
approximately $2,000 and related to software license fees. There
were no fees billed for any other services during the year ended
December 31, 2004.

PART IV 

Item 15.  
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)(1). Financial Statements 

Information in response to this Item is included in Item 8
of Part II of this
Form  10-K. 

(a)(2). Financial Statement Schedules 

Information in response to this Item is included in Item 8
of Part II of this
Form  10-K  and
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 12 attached to
this Form  10-K. 

(a)(3) and (b). Exhibits 

Information in response to this Item is incorporated herein by
reference to the Exhibit Index to this
Form  10-K. 

210

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has
duly caused this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized on this
22 nd  day
of November, 2006.

PHH CORPORATION 

By:  
     
    /s/ TERENCE W. EDWARDS 

Name:  Terence W. Edwards 

Title:   President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Annual Report
on Form  10-K  has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. The
undersigned hereby constitute and appoint Terence W. Edwards,
Clair M. Raubenstine and William F. Brown, and each of them,
their true and lawful agents and
 attorneys-in -fact with
full power and authority in said agents and
 attorneys-in -fact, and
in any one or more of them, to sign for the undersigned and in
their respective names as directors and officers of PHH
Corporation, any amendment or supplement hereto. The undersigned
hereby confirm all acts taken by such agents and
 attorneys-in -fact, or
any one or more of them, as herein authorized.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/  TERENCE W. EDWARDS 
      
 Terence
    W. Edwards 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal
    Executive Officer) 

November 22, 2006 

/s/  CLAIR M.
    RAUBENSTINE 
      
 Clair
    M. Raubenstine 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
    Financial and Accounting Officer) 

November 22, 2006 

/s/  A.B. KRONGARD 
      
 A.B.
    Krongard 

Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors 

November 22, 2006 

/s/  JAMES W. BRINKLEY 
      
 James
    W. Brinkley 

Director 

November 22, 2006 

/s/  GEORGE J. KILROY 
      
 George
    J. Kilroy 

Director 

November 22, 2006 

/s/  ANN D. LOGAN 
      
 Ann
    D. Logan 

Director 

November 22, 2006 

/s/  JONATHAN D. MARINER 
      
 Jonathan
    D. Mariner 

Director 

November 22, 2006 

/s/  FRANCIS J. VAN KIRK 
      
 Francis
    J. Van Kirk 

Director 

November 22, 2006 

211

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit  

No.  
       
      Description  
       
      Incorporation by Reference  

2 
     .1 

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Cendant Corporation,
    PHH Corporation, Avis Acquisition Corp, and Avis Group Holdings,
    Inc., dated as of November 11, 2000. 

3 
     .1 

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

3 
     .2 

Amended and Restated By-Laws. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

3 
     .3 

Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Operating
    Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005, of PHH Home Loans,
    LLC, by and between PHH Broker Partner Corporation and Cendant
    Real Estate Services Venture Partner, Inc. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

3 
     .3.1 

Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Limited
    Liability Company Operating Agreement of PHH Home Loans, LLC,
    dated May 12, 2005, by and between PHH Broker Partner
    Corporation and Cendant Real Estate Services Venture Partner,
    Inc. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3.1 to our Quarterly
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
    September 30, 2005 filed on November 14, 2005. 

3 
     .3.2 

Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 31, 2006 to the
    Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Operating
    Agreement of PHH Home Loans, LLC, dates as of January 31,
    2005, as amended. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current
    Report on Form 8-K of Cendant Corporation filed on
    April 3, 2006. 

4 
     .1 

Specimen common stock certificate. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to our Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    2004 filed on March 5, 2005. 

4 
     .1.2 

See Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 for provisions of the Amended and
    Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated
    By-laws of the registrant defining the rights of holders of
    common stock of the registrant. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2,
    respectively, to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
    February 1, 2005. 

4 
     .2 

Rights Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2005, by and
    between PHH Corporation and the Bank of New York. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated as of February 1, 2005. 

4 
     .3 

Indenture dated November 6, 2000 between PHH Corporation
    and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. 

4 
     .4 

Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated November 6, 2000
    between PHH Corporation and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as
    Trustee. 

4 
     .5 

Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated as of May 30, 2002
    to the Indenture dated as of November 6, 2000 between PHH
    corporation and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
    (pursuant to which the Internotes, 6.000% Notes due 2008
    and 7.125% Notes due 2013 were issued). 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on June 4, 2002. 

212

Table of Contents   

213

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

No.  
       
      Description  
       
      Incorporation by Reference  

10 
     .10 

Series 2003-1 Indenture Supplement, dated as of August 14,
    2003, to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999,
    between Chesapeake Funding LLC and JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly
    known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Chesapeake Funding LLC s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
    ended September 30, 2003 filed on November 6, 2003. 

10 
     .11 

Series 2003-2 Indenture Supplement, dated as of
    November 19, 2003, between Chesapeake Funding LLC, as
    Issuer and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Cendant Corporation s
    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 filed
    on March 1, 2004. 

10 
     .12 

Three Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement,
    dated as of June 28, 2004, among PHH Corporation, the
    Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on June 30, 2004. 

10 
     .13 

Series 2004-1 Indenture Supplement, dated as of July 29,
    2004, to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999,
    between Chesapeake Funding LLC and JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly
    known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
    September 30, 2004 filed on November 2, 2004. 

10 
     .14 

Amendment, dated as of December 21, 2004, to the Three Year
    Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement, dated
    June 28, 2004, between PHH, the Financial Institution
    parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative
    agent. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

10 
     .15  

Strategic Relationship Agreement, dated as of January 31,
    2005, by and among Cendant Real Estate Services Group, LLC,
    Cendant Real Estate Services Venture Partner, Inc., PHH
    Corporation, Cendant Mortgage Corporation, PHH Broker Partner
    Corporation and PHH Home Loans, LLC. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

10 
     .16 

Trademark License Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005,
    by and among TM Acquisition Corp., Coldwell Banker Real Estate
    Corporation, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc., Century 21 LLC and
    Cendant Mortgage Corporation. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

10 
     .17 

Marketing Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005, by and
    between Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real
    Estate LLC, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc., Sotheby s
    International Affiliates, Inc. and Cendant Mortgage Corporation. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

10 
     .18 

Separation Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005, by and
    between Cendant Corporation and PHH Corporation. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated as of February 1, 2005. 

10 
     .19 

Tax Sharing Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2005, by and
    among Cendant Corporation, PHH Corporation and certain
    affiliates of PHH Corporation named therein. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005. 

214

Table of Contents   

215

Table of Contents   

216

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

No.  
       
      Description  
       
      Incorporation by Reference  

10 
     .45   

Form of Accelerated Vesting Schedule Modification for PHH
    Corporation Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on December 21, 2005. 

10 
     .46   

Form of Accelerated Vesting Schedule Modification for PHH
    Corporation Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on December 21, 2005. 

10 
     .47 

Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit
    Agreement, dated as of January 6, 2006, by and among PHH
    Corporation and PHH Vehicle Management Services, Inc., as
    Borrowers, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. and Citigroup
    Global Markets, Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers, the Lenders
    referred to therein (the  Lenders ), and JPMorgan
    Chase Bank, N.A., as a Lender and Administrative Agent for the
    Lenders. 

10 
     .48 

Extension Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2006,
    extending the expiration date for the Fourth Amended and
    Restated Mortgage Loan Repurchase and Servicing Agreement, dated
    as of June 30, 2005, among Sheffield Receivables
    Corporation, as Purchaser, Barclays Bank PLC, as Administrative
    Agent, PHH Mortgage Corporation, as Seller and Servicer, and PHH
    Corporation, as Guarantor. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on January 13, 2006. 

10 
     .49 

Base Indenture, dated as of March 7, 2006, between
    Chesapeake Funding LLC (now known as Chesapeake Finance Holdings
    LLC), as Issuer, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Indenture
    Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2006. 

10 
     .50 

Series 2006-1 Indenture Supplement, dated as of March 7,
    2006, among Chesapeake Funding LLC (now known as Chesapeake
    Finance Holdings LLC), as issuer, PHH Vehicle Management
    Services, LLC, as Administrator, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent, Certain CP Conduit Purchasers, Certain APA
    Banks, Certain Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as
    Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2006. 

10 
     .51 

Series 2006-2 Indenture Supplement, dated as of March 7,
    2006, among Chesapeake Funding LLC (now known as Chesapeake
    Finance Holdings LLC), as Issuer, PHH Vehicle Management
    Services, LLC, as Administrator, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent, Certain CP Conduit Purchasers, Certain APA
    Banks, Certain Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as
    Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2006. 

10 
     .52 

Master Exchange Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2006, among
    PHH Funding, LLC, Chesapeake Finance Holdings LLC (f/k/a
    Chesapeake Funding LLC) and D.L. Peterson Trust. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2006. 

217

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

No.  
       
      Description  
       
      Incorporation by Reference  

10 
     .53 

$500 million 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as
    of April 6, 2006, among PHH Corporation, as Borrower,
    J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets
    Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, the Lenders
    referred to therein, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as a Lender
    and Administrative Agent for the Lenders. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on April 6, 2006. 

10 
     .54  

Management Services Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2006,
    between PHH Home Loans, LLC and PHH Mortgage Corporation. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on April 6, 2006. 

10 
     .55 

Base Indenture, dated as of December 11, 1998, between
    Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Trust, as Issuer, and
    The Bank of New York, as Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2006. 

10 
     .56 

Series 1999-1 Supplement, dated as of November 22, 1999, to
    the Base Indenture, dated as of December 11, 1998, between
    Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Trust, as Issuer, and
    The Bank of New York, as Indenture Trustee and Series 1999-1
    Agent. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2006. 

10 
     .57 

Base Indenture Amendment Agreement, dated as of October 31,
    2000, to the Base Indenture, dated as of December 11, 1998,
    between Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Trust, as
    Issuer, and The Bank of New York, as Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2006. 

10 
     .58 

Series 2001-1 Supplement, dated as of March 30, 2001, to
    the Base Indenture, dated as of December 11, 1998, between
    Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Trust, as Issuer, and
    The Bank of New York, as Indenture Trustee and Series 2001-1
    Agent. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2006. 

10 
     .59 

Series 2001-2 Supplement, dated as of November 20, 2001, to
    the Base Indenture, dated as of December 11, 1998, between
    Bishop s Gate Residential Mortgage Trust, as Issuer, and
    The Bank of New York, as Indenture Trustee and Series 2001-2
    Agent. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2006. 

10 
     .60 

Base Indenture Second Amendment Agreement, dated as of
    December 28, 2001, to the Base Indenture, dated as of
    December 11, 1998, between Bishop s Gate Residential
    Mortgage Trust, as Issuer, and The Bank of New York, as
    Indenture Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2006. 

10 
     .61 

$750 million Credit Agreement, dated as of July 21,
    2006, among PHH Corporation, as Borrower, Citicorp North
    America, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as
    Syndication Agents, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and
    Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint
    Bookrunners, the Lenders referred to therein, and JPMorgan Chase
    Bank, N.A., as a Lender and Administrative Agent for the Lenders. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on July 24, 2006. 

218

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

No.  
       
      Description  
       
      Incorporation by Reference  

10 
     .62 

Amended and Restated Liquidity Agreement Dated as of
    December 11, 1998 (as Further and Amended and Restated as
    of December 2, 2003) among Bishop s Gate Residential
    Mortgage Trust, Certain Banks Listed Therein and JPMorgan Chase
    Bank, as Agent. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on August 16, 2006. 

10 
     .63 

Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 11, 2006 among
    the Bank of New York, as Indenture Trustee and Bishop s
    Gate Residential Mortgage Trust. 

Incorporated by reference to our Current Report on Form 8-K
    dated as of August 16, 2006. 

10 
     .64 

Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of August 31,
    2006, by and between PHH Corporation and J.P. Morgan Trust
    Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to Bank One Trust
    Company, N.A.), as Trustee. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on September 1, 2006. 

10 
     .65  

Release and Restrictive Covenants Agreement, dated
    September 21, 2006, by and between PHH Corporation and Neil
    J. Cashen. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on September 26, 2006. 

10 
     .66  

Trademark License Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005,
    by and between Cendant Real Estate Services Venture Partner,
    Inc., and PHH Home Loans, LLC. 

10 
     .67  

Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of December 15,
    2000, as amended through March 24, 2006, by and between
    Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and Cendant Mortgage
    Corporation (renamed PHH Mortgage Corporation). 

10 
     .68  

Portfolio Servicing Agreement, dated as of January 28,
    2000, as amended through October 27, 2004, by and between
    Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and Cendant Mortgage
    Corporation (renamed PHH Mortgage Corporation). 

10 
     .69  

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of December 15,
    2000, as amended through March 24, 2006, by and between
    Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and Cendant Mortgage
    Corporation (renamed PHH Mortgage Corporation). 

10 
     .70  

Equity
    Access   
    and
    Omega  sm
      Loan Subservicing Agreement, dated as of
    June 6, 2002, as amended through March 14, 2006 by and
    between Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, as servicer, and
    Cendant Mortgage Corporation (renamed PHH Mortgage Corporation),
    as subservicer. 

10 
     .71  

Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of
    January 28, 2000, as amended through March 29, 2005,
    by and between Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and Cendant
    Mortgage Corporation (renamed PHH Mortgage Corporation). 

219

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

No.  
       
      Description  
       
      Incorporation by Reference  

10 
     .72  

Fifth Amended and Restated Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as
    of October 30, 2006, among Sheffield Receivables
    Corporation, as conduit principal, Barclays Bank PLC, as
    administrative agent, PHH Mortgage Corporation, as seller, and
    PHH Corporation, as guarantor. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on October 30, 2006. 

10 
     .73 

Servicing Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2006, among
    Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, PHH Mortgage
    Corporation, as seller, and PHH Corporation, as guarantor. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on October 30, 2006. 

10 
     .74   

Resolution of the PHH Corporation Compensation Committee, dated
    November 22, 2006, modifying fiscal 2005 performance
    targets for equity awards and cash bonuses as applied to
    participants other than the Named Executive Officers under the
    2005 Equity and Incentive Plan. 

12 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

21 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 

23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31(i) 
     .1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

31(i) 
     .2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32 
     .1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32 
     .2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

99 
     .1 

PHH Corporation Independence Standards for Directors. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to our Current
    Report on Form 8-K filed on April 27, 2006. 

99 
     .2 

Glossary of Terms. 

Confidential treatment has been requested for certain portions
    of this Exhibit pursuant to
    Rule  24b-2  of the
    Exchange Act which portions have been omitted and filed
    separately with the Commission. 

Management or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
    filed pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) and (b) of this Annual
    Report on
    Form  10-K.  

220

<EX-2.1>
 2
 y26027exv2w1.htm
 EX-2.1: AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER

EX-2.1 

EXHIBIT 2.1 

AGREEMENT

AND

PLAN OF MERGER

by and among

CENDANT CORPORATION,

PHH CORPORATION,

AVIS ACQUISITION CORP.

and

AVIS GROUP HOLDINGS, INC.

dated as of November 11, 2000

TABLE OF CONTENTS

-i-

-ii- 

-iii-

AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER

This AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this  Agreement ), dated as of November
11, 2000, is by and among Cendant Corporation, a Delaware corporation
( Parent ), PHH Corporation, a Maryland corporation and an indirect wholly owned
Subsidiary (as defined below) of Parent ( PHH ), Avis Acquisition Corp., a
Delaware corporation and a wholly owned Subsidiary of PHH ( Merger Sub ), and
Avis Group Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ).

RECITALS

WHEREAS, Cendant Car Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation and an
indirect, wholly owned Subsidiary of Parent ( Car Holdings ), is the beneficial
owner of 5,535,800 shares of class A common stock, par value $.01 per share, of
the Company (the  Company Common Stock ), which represents approximately 17.8%
of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock;

WHEREAS, Parent and PHH have proposed that PHH acquire (the  Acquisition )
all of the issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock not
beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act (as
defined below)) by Parent, PHH, Merger Sub, Car Holdings or any other direct or
indirect Subsidiary of Parent (collectively, the  Acquisition Group ) (such
outstanding shares of Company Common Stock not owned by the Acquisition Group
being referred to herein as the  Shares 

WHEREAS, in furtherance of the Acquisition, it is proposed that Merger Sub
shall be merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the
surviving corporation (the  Merger ), in accordance with the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  DGCL ) and upon the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth herein;

WHEREAS, a special committee of the board of directors of the Company (the
 Board ), consisting entirely of nonmanagement directors of the Company who are
not Affiliates (as defined below) of the Acquisition Group (the  Independent
Committee ), was established for, among other purposes, the purpose of
evaluating the Acquisition and making a recommendation to the Board with regard
to the Acquisition;

WHEREAS, the Independent Committee has received the opinion of Morgan
Stanley   Co., Incorporated ( Morgan Stanley ), financial advisor to the
Independent Committee, that, as of the date hereof, the consideration to be
received

1 

by the holders of Shares pursuant to the Merger is fair to such holders from a financial point of view;

WHEREAS, the Board, based on the unanimous recommendation of the
Independent Committee, has, in light of and subject to the terms and conditions
set forth herein, (i) determined that (x) the Merger Consideration (as defined
below), is fair to the holders of Shares and (y) the Merger is advisable and in
the best interests of the Company and the holders of Shares; (ii) approved, and
declared the advisability of, this Agreement and (iii) determined to recommend
that the stock holders of the Company vote to adopt this Agreement;

WHEREAS, the respective boards of directors of Parent, PHH and Merger Sub
have approved this Agreement; the board of directors of Merger Sub has declared
the advisability of the Agreement; and PHH, as the sole stockholder of Merger
Sub, has adopted this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the Company, Parent, PHH and Merger Sub desire to make certain
representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in connection with the
Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the
 Transactions ) and also to prescribe various conditions to the Merger.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual
covenants, representations, warranties and agreements contained herein, the
parties hereto agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 
THE MERGER

1.1 THE MERGER. At the Effective Time (as defined below), and upon the
terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and in accordance with the
DGCL, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company. Following the
Merger, the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation (the  Surviving
Corporation ) and as a wholly owned subsidiary of PHH, and the separate
corporate existence of Merger Sub shall cease in accordance with the DGCL.

1.2 EFFECTIVE TIME. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the
parties shall cause the Merger to be consummated by filing a certificate of
merger (the  Certificate of Merger ) with the Secretary of State of the State of
Delaware in such form as required by, and executed in accordance with, the
relevant provisions of the DGCL as soon as practicable on or after the Closing
Date (as defined below). The Merger shall become effective upon such filing or
at such time thereafter as is

2 

agreed by Parent and the Independent Committee and provided in the Certificate
of Merger (the  Effective Time,  and the date of such effectiveness shall be the
 Effective Date ).

1.3 CLOSING OF THE MERGER. The closing of the Merger (the  Closing ) shall
take place at the offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher   Flom LLP, Four
Times Square, New York, New York, at 10:00 a.m. (local time) on a date to be
specified by the parties, which shall be no later than the second Business Day
after satisfaction or waiver (as permitted by this Agreement and applicable law)
of all of the conditions set forth in Article VI hereof (other than those
conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject
to the fulfillment or waiver of those conditions) (the  Closing Date ), unless
another time, date or place is agreed by Parent and the Independent Committee in
writing.

1.4 EFFECTS OF THE MERGER. The Merger shall have the effects set forth in
Section 259 of the DGCL. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and
subject thereto, at the Effective Time, all properties, rights, privileges,
powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall vest in the Surviving
Corporation, and all debts, liabilities and duties of the Company and Merger
Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation.

1.5 CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS. At the Effective Time, the
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company shall be
amended and restated in its entirety to read as set forth in Annex A and, as so
amended, shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation
until thereafter amended as provided by law and such certificate of
incorporation, subject to the provisions of Section 5.5. The by-laws of Merger
Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the by-laws
of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter amended in accordance with its
terms, and as provided by applicable law, and the certificate of incorporation
of the Surviving Corporation, subject to the provisions of Section 5.5.

1.6 DIRECTORS. The directors of Merger Sub at the Effective Time, from and
after the Effective Time, shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation,
each to hold office in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and
by-laws of the Surviving Corporation until such director s successor is duly
elected and qualified in the manner provided in the Surviving Corporation s
certificate of incorporation and by-laws, or as otherwise provided by applicable
law.

1.7 OFFICERS. The officers of the Company at the Effective Time, from and
after the Effective Time, shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation
until such officer s successor is duly elected or appointed and qualified in the
manner

3 

provided in the Surviving Corporation s certificate of incorporation and
by-laws, or as otherwise provided by applicable law.

1.8 SUBSEQUENT ACTIONS. If, at any time after the Effective Time, the
Surviving Corporation shall determine or be advised that any deeds, bills of
sale, assignments, assurances or any other actions or things are necessary or
desirable to vest, perfect or confirm of record or otherwise in the Surviving
Corporation its right, title or interest in, to or under any of the rights,
properties or assets of the Company acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving
Corporation as a result of, or in connection with, the Merger or otherwise to
carry out this Agreement, the officers and directors of the Surviving
Corporation shall be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on
behalf of either the Company or Merger Sub, all such deeds, bills of sale,
instruments of conveyance, assignments and assurances and to take and do, in the
name and on behalf of the Company, Merger Sub or otherwise, all such other
actions and things as may be necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm
any and all right, title and interest in, to and under such rights, properties
or assets in the Surviving Corporation or otherwise to carry out this Agreement.

ARTICLE II 
CONVERSION OF SHARES

2.1 CONVERSION OF SHARES. At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger,
and without any action on the part of the holder thereof:

(a) subject to Section 2.3, each Share issued and outstanding immediately
prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive an
amount in cash, without interest, equal to thirty-three United States Dollars
($33.00) (the  Merger Consideration ) in the manner provided in Section 2.2
hereof;

(b) each Share issued and held in the Company s treasury or held by any
Subsidiary of the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time shall, by
virtue of the Merger, cease to be outstanding and shall be cancelled and retired
without payment of any consideration therefor;

(c) each share of Company Common Stock held by any member of the
Acquisition Group immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted
into and become one fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock of the
Surviving Corporation; and

(d) each share of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of Merger Sub
( Merger Sub Common Stock ) issued and outstanding immediately

4 

prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into and become one fully paid
and nonassessable share of common stock of the Surviving Corporation.

2.2 DELIVERY OF MERGER CONSIDERATION.

(a) Immediately prior to the Effective Time, Parent and PHH shall deposit
or cause to be deposited in trust (the  Payment Fund ) with an agent designated
by Parent and reasonably satisfactory to the Independent Committee (the  Payment
Agent ) for the benefit of the holders of certificates representing the Shares
issued and outstanding as of the Effective Time (collectively,  Certificates ),
the aggregate Merger Consideration to be paid in respect of the Shares. The
Payment Fund shall not be used for any other purpose. The Payment Fund shall be
invested by the Payment Agent, as directed by the Surviving Corporation, in (i)
obligations of or guaranteed by the United States, and (ii) certificates of
deposit, bank repurchase agreements and bankers  acceptances of any bank or
trust company organized under federal law or under the law of any state of the
United States or of the District of Columbia that has capital, surplus and
undivided profits of at least $1 billion or in money market funds which are
invested substantially in such investments. Any net earnings with respect
thereto shall be paid to the Surviving Corporation as and when requested by the
Surviving Corporation.

(b) As soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, Parent
shall instruct the Payment Agent to mail to each holder of record of Shares
immediately prior to the Effective Time (excluding any Shares cancelled pursuant
to Section 2.1 hereof):

(i) a letter of transmittal (the  Letter of Transmittal ) (which shall
specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to the
Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of such Certificates to the Payment
Agent and shall be in such form and have such other provisions as Parent
reasonably specifies), and

(ii) instructions for use in effecting the surrender of each
Certificate in exchange for the Merger Consideration with respect to each of the
Shares formerly represented thereby.

(c) Parent and the Surviving Corporation shall cause the Payment Agent to
pay to the holders of a Certificate, as soon as practicable after receipt of any
Certificate (or in lieu of any such Certificate which has been lost, stolen or
destroyed, an affidavit of lost, stolen or destroyed share certificates
(including customary indemnity or bond against loss) in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to Parent) together with the Letter of Transmittal, duly
executed, and such other

5 

documents as Parent or the Payment Agent reasonably request, in exchange
therefor a check in the amount equal to the Merger Consideration multiplied by
the number of Shares represented by such Certificate. No interest shall be paid
or accrued on any cash payable upon the surrender of any Certificate. Each
Certificate surrendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.2(c)
shall be cancelled forthwith.

(d) In the event of a transfer of ownership of Shares which is not
registered in the transfer records of the Company, the Merger Consideration may
be paid to the transferee only if (i) the Certificate representing such Shares
surrendered to the Payment Agent in accordance with Section 2.2(c) hereof is
properly endorsed for transfer or is accompanied by appropriate and properly
endorsed stock powers and is otherwise in proper form to effect such transfer,
(ii) the Person requesting such transfer pays to the Payment Agent any transfer
or other taxes payable by reason of such transfer or establishes to the
satisfaction of the Payment Agent that such taxes have been paid or are not
required to be paid, and (iii) such Person establishes to the reasonable
satisfaction of Parent that such transfer would not violate any applicable
federal or state securities laws.

(e) Subject to Section 2.3, at and after the Effective Time, each holder of
a Certificate that represented issued and outstanding Shares immediately prior
to the Effective Time shall cease to have any rights as a stockholder of the
Company, except for the right to surrender his or her Certificate in exchange
for the Merger Consideration multiplied by the number of Shares represented by
such Certificate. At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of the Company
shall be closed, except as otherwise provided by applicable law, and no transfer
of Shares shall be made on the stock transfer books of the Surviving
Corporation. If, after the Effective Time, Certificates are presented to the
Surviving Corporation or the Payment Agent for any reason, they shall be
cancelled and exchanged as provided in this Article II, except as otherwise
provided by applicable law.

(f) The Merger Consideration paid in the Merger shall be net to the holder
of Shares in cash, and without interest thereon, subject to reduction only for
any applicable withholding Taxes (as defined below).

(g) Promptly following the date which is 180 days after the Effective Date,
the Payment Agent shall deliver to the Surviving Corporation all cash (including
any interest received with respect thereto), Certificates and other documents
in its possession relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, and the
Payment Agent s duties shall terminate. Thereafter, each holder of a Certificate
(other than Certificates representing Dissenting Shares (as defined below)) may
surrender such Certificate to the Surviving Corporation and (subject to any
applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law) receive in consideration
therefor (and

6 

only as general creditors thereof) the aggregate Merger Consideration relating
thereto, without any interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no member
of the Acquisition Group, nor the Surviving Corporation, the Company or the
Payment Agent shall be liable to a holder of a Certificate for any Merger
Consideration properly delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable
abandoned property, escheat or similar law.

(h) Any portion of the Merger Consideration made available to the Payment
Agent pursuant to Section 2.2(a) to pay for Shares for which appraisal rights
have been perfected shall be returned to Parent or PHH upon demand.

2.3 DISSENTING SHARES. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, Shares that are issued and outstanding immediately before the
Effective Time and that are held by stockholders who have not voted in favor of
the adoption of this Agreement or consented thereto in writing and who have
properly exercised appraisal rights with respect thereto in accordance with
Section 262 of the DGCL shall not be converted into the right to receive the
Merger Consideration as provided in Section 2.1, unless such holders fail to
perfect or withdraw or otherwise lose their rights to appraisal. Instead,
ownership of such Shares shall entitle the holder thereof to receive the
consideration determined pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL; provided, however,
that if such holder fails to perfect or effectively with draws such holder s
right to appraisal and payment under the DGCL, each of such Shares shall
thereupon be deemed to have been converted, at the Effective Time, into the
right to receive the Merger Consideration, without any interest thereon, upon
surrender of the Certificate or Certificates in the manner provided in Section
2.2 hereof. The Company shall give Parent (i) prompt notice of any demands (or
withdrawals of demands) for appraisal of any Shares received by the Company
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the DGCL and any other instruments
served pursuant to the DGCL and received by the Company and (ii) the opportunity
to direct all negotiations and proceedings with respect to demands for appraisal
under the DGCL. The Company shall not, except with the prior written consent of
Parent, make any payment with respect to any such demands for appraisal or offer
to settle, or settle, any such demands.

2.4 TREATMENT OF COMPANY OPTIONS.

(a) Subject to Section 2.4(b), the Company shall take all action necessary
so that each option to purchase shares of Company Common Stock (each, an
 Option ) granted under the Company s 1997 Stock Option Plan and 2000 Incentive
Compensation Plan (collectively, the  Assumed Option Plans  and, individually,
an  Assumed Option Plan ) outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the
Effective Time shall be cancelled immediately prior to the Effective

7 

Time in exchange for the right to receive an amount in cash equal to the product
of (i) the number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to such Option
immediately prior to the Effective Time and (ii) the excess, if any, of the
Merger Consideration over the per share exercise price of such Option, to be
delivered by the Surviving Corporation promptly following the Effective Time.
All applicable withholding taxes attributable to the payments made hereunder
shall be deducted from the amounts payable under this Section 2.4.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, or Section 2.4(b), any Option with an exercise
price greater than the Merger Consideration immediately prior to the Effective
Time shall be automatically converted into an Assumed Option in accordance with
Section 2.4(c), whether or not the holder thereof shall have made a Retention
Election with respect to such Option in accordance with Section 2.4(b). The
Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the consent of
each holder of Options to the foregoing treatment of such Options to the extent
required under the Assumed Option Plans pursuant to which such Options were
granted.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.4(a), each person who, on
or prior to the Effective Date, is the holder of an outstanding and unexercised
Option shall be entitled, with respect to all or any portion of such holder s
Option, to make an unconditional election to the Company in writing (a
 Retention Election ) on or prior to the Effective Date, to convert, as of the
Effective Time, such portion of their Options as may be specified in such
Retention Election into options to purchase shares of common stock, par value
$.01 per share, of Parent ( Cendant Common Stock ), as set forth in subsection
(c) below, in lieu of receiving a cash payment, if any, in consideration for the
cancellation of such portion of their Options in the manner described in Section
2.4(a).

(c) Any portion of an Option with respect to which a timely Retention
Election has been delivered to the Company (the  Elected Portion ) shall, at the
Effective Time, become and represent an option to purchase Cendant Common Stock;
and Parent shall assume each such option (hereinafter, an  Assumed Option )
subject to the terms of the applicable Assumed Option Plan, in each case as
hereto fore amended or restated, as the case may be, and the agreement
evidencing the grant thereunder of such Assumed Option; provided, however, that
from and after the Effective Time, (i) the number of shares of Cendant Common
Stock purchasable upon exercise of such Assumed Option shall be equal to the
number of shares of Company Common Stock that were purchasable under such
Assumed Option immediately prior to the Effective Time multiplied by the
Exchange Ratio (as defined below), and rounded up or down to the nearest whole
share, and (ii) the per share exercise price under each such Assumed Option
shall be adjusted by dividing the per share exercise price of each such Assumed
Option by the Exchange Ratio, and rounding up or down to the nearest whole cent;
provided, however, that in the

8 

case of any Options intended to qualify as  incentive stock options  under
Section 422 of the Code, the adjustments pursuant to this Section 2.4(c) shall
be determined in order to comply with Section 424(a) of the Code. The terms of
the Assumed Option shall be the same as the original Option except that all
references to the Company shall be deemed to be references to Parent. The terms
of each Assumed Option shall, to the extent provided in the applicable Assumed
Option Plan, be subject to further adjustment as appropriate to reflect any
stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization or other similar transaction with
respect to Cendant Common Stock on or subsequent to the Effective Time. The
 Exchange Ratio  shall be equal to the ratio obtained by dividing the amount of
the Merger Consideration by the average closing price of one share of Cendant
Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the ten (10) consecutive trading
days immediately preceding the Effective Date.

(d) The parties acknowledge that each Option to purchase shares of Company
Common Stock under the Assumed Option Plans shall become fully vested and
exercisable in connection with consummation of the Merger in accordance with
and subject to the terms of such Option and the relevant Assumed Option Plan.

2.5 ADJUSTMENTS. If, during the period between the date of this Agreement
and the Effective Time, any change in the outstanding Shares shall occur in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, stock split or combination, exchange or readjustment
of Shares, or stock dividend thereon with a record date during such period, the
cash payable pursuant to the Offer, the Merger Consideration and any other
amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement shall be appropriately adjusted.

2.6 STOCKHOLDERS MEETING.

(a) The Company, acting through the Board, shall, in accordance with and to
the extent permitted by applicable law:

(i) as promptly as practicable after the date hereof, call, give notice
of, convene and hold a special meeting of its stockholders (the  Stock holders
Meeting ) for the purpose of considering and taking action upon the adoption of
this Agreement;

(ii) prepare and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 SEC ) a preliminary proxy statement relating to this Agreement and the Merger
as promptly as practicable after the date hereof, and use its commercially
reasonable efforts to obtain and furnish the information required to be included

9 

in such proxy statement and, after consultation with Parent, respond promptly to
any comments made by the SEC and its staff with respect to the preliminary proxy
statement and cause a definitive proxy statement relating to this Agreement and
the Merger (such proxy statement, together with any and all amendments or
supplements thereto, the  Proxy Statement ) to be mailed to its stockholders at
the earliest practicable time;

(iii) include in the Proxy Statement the recommendations of the
Independent Committee and the Board that stockholders of the Company vote in
favor of the adoption of this Agreement (as the same may be amended, modified or
withdrawn in accordance with Section 5.2(d) hereof); and

(iv) use its reasonable best efforts to solicit from holders of Shares
proxies in favor of the adoption of this Agreement and take all other action
necessary or advisable to secure, at the Stockholders Meeting, the affirmative
vote of (A) the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Company
Common Stock (voting as one class, with each share of Company Common Stock
having one vote) and (B) the holders of a majority of the votes cast at the
Stockholders Meeting by holders of Shares in favor of the adoption of this
Agreement (the  Company Stock holder Approval ). The Company shall cause all
Shares for which valid proxies have been submitted and not revoked to be voted
at the Stockholders Meeting in accordance with the instructions on such
proxies.

(b) Once the Stockholders Meeting has been called and noticed, the Company
shall not postpone or adjourn the Stockholders Meeting (other than for the
absence of a quorum) without the prior written consent of Parent.

(c) Parent, PHH and Purchaser agree to promptly provide the Company with
the information concerning Parent, PHH and Purchaser and their respective
Affiliates required to be included in the Proxy Statement. At the Stock holders
Meeting, Parent, PHH and Purchaser shall vote, or cause to be voted, all shares
of Company Common Stock beneficially owned by them or any of their respective
Subsidiaries in favor of the adoption of this Agreement.

(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement,
in the event that the Independent Committee changes its recommendation of this
Agreement and the Merger in accordance with Section 5.2(d) hereof and this
Agreement has not been terminated pursuant to Article VII hereof, then, without
limiting the Company s ability to disclose the recommendations of the Board and
the Independent Committee in the Proxy Statement:

10 

(i) in performing its obligations under this Section 2.6, the Company
shall not be obligated to solicit from holders of Shares proxies in favor of the
adoption of this Agreement or to take all action necessary or advisable to
secure, at the Stockholders Meeting, the Company Stockholders Approval, but
instead shall be obligated to solicit impartially from holders of Shares proxies
to be voted at the Stockholders Meeting (making no instructions to vote in favor
or against, but merely to return a completed proxy card) and to take all action
necessary or advisable to maximize, at the Stockholders Meeting, the number of
proxies submitted by holders of Shares;

(ii) the Company shall remain obligated to vote all unspecified but
executed proxies submitted by holders of Shares in favor of the adoption of this
Agreement;

(iii) Parent and its affiliates and agents shall have the right, as a
participant in the Company s solicitation of proxies, to communicate with and
solicit from holders of Shares the submission of Company proxies in favor of the
adoption of this Agreement and to take all actions necessary or advisable to
secure, at the Stockholders Meeting, the Company Stockholders Approval and
otherwise to act as a participant in the Company s solicitation; and

(iv) The Company shall cooperate with Parent in connection with any
actions taken by it pursuant to clause (d)(ii) above and shall make any filings
under Federal securities laws required in connection therewith.

ARTICLE III 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY

The Company represents and warrants to Parent, PHH and Merger Sub as of the
date of this Agreement as follows:

3.1 ORGANIZATION. The Company and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation
or other entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the
laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization and has all
requisite corporate or other power and authority to own, lease and operate its
properties and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted. The
Company and each of its Subsidiaries is duly qualified or licensed and in good
standing to do business in each jurisdiction in which the property owned, leased
or operated by it or the nature of the business conducted by it makes such
qualification or licensing necessary where the failure to be so duly qualified
or licensed or in good standing would, individually or in the aggregate, result
in a Material Adverse Effect (as

11 

defined below). As used herein, the term  Material Adverse Effect  means a
material adverse change in, or effect on, the business, condition (financial or
otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as
a whole, but shall not include any change, event, effect, occurrence or
circumstance arising in connection with or as a result of (i) the announcement
or performance of the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement, in and of
themselves, or (ii) Parent s announcement or other communication of Parent of
the plans or intentions of Parent with respect to any conduct of any business of
the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

3.2 AUTHORITY RELATIVE TO THIS AGREEMENT.

(a) The Company has the requisite corporate power and authority to execute
and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the Transactions, including,
without limitation, the Merger. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by
the Company, and the consummation of the Transactions to be consummated by it,
have been duly authorized by the Board and no other corporate proceedings on the
part of the Company are required to authorize this Agreement or to consummate
the Transactions to be consummated by it, other than, with respect to the
Merger, (i) the Company Stockholder Approval and (ii) the filing and recordation
of the Certificate of Merger in accordance with the DGCL. This Agreement has
been duly executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming due authorization,
execution and delivery hereof by Parent, PHH and Merger Sub) constitutes a valid
and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in
accordance with its terms, except that (i) such enforcement may be subject to
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar
laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to creditors  rights generally and
(ii) equitable remedies of specific performance and injunctive and other forms
of equitable relief may be subject to equitable defenses and to the discretion
of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

(b) The Company hereby represents and warrants that (i) the Independent
Committee has been duly authorized and constituted; (ii) the Board, based on the
recommendation of the Independent Committee at a meeting duly called and held,
has (A) determined that (x) the Merger Consideration is fair to the holders of
Shares and (y) the Merger is advisable and in the best interests of the Company
and the holders of Shares, (B) approved and declared the advisability of, this
Agreement and (C) determined to recommend that the stockholders of the Company
vote to adopt this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the DGCL. The
Independent Committee and the Board have received the written opinion (the
 Fairness Opinion ) of Morgan Stanley to the effect that, as of the date hereof,
the Merger Consideration to be paid to the holders of Shares is fair to such
holders from a financial point of view, and, as of the date hereof, such
Fairness Opinion has not

12 

been withdrawn. The Company has delivered a true, correct and complete copy of
the Fairness Opinion to Parent.

3.3 VOTE REQUIRED. The affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the
outstanding shares of Company Common Stock is the only vote of holders of any
class or series of the Company s capital stock required to approve the Merger
and adopt this Agreement under the DGCL, the Company s Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation and the Company s Amended and
Restated By Laws.

3.4 STATE TAKEOVER STATUTES. The Company has elected not to be governed by
Section 203 of the DGCL in accordance with the provisions of Section 203(b) of
the DGCL. The restrictions on business combinations contained in Section 203 of
the DGCL do not apply to the Merger or the other Transactions nor shall they
apply to any member of the Acquisition Group as a result of this Agreement or
the Transactions.

3.5 CAPITALIZATION.

(a) The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 100,000,000
shares of Company Common Stock, 15,000,000 shares of class B common stock, par
value $.01 per share of the Company (the  Class B Common Stock ) and 20,000,000
shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ( Preferred
Stock ). As of October 31, 2000, there were (i) 31,156,172 shares of Company
Common Stock issued and outstanding, (ii) 4,768,828 shares of Company Common
Stock held in the Company s treasury, (iii) 9,000,000 shares of Company Common
Stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding Options, (iv) no
shares of Company Common Stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion of the
Class B Common Stock, (v) no shares of Class B Common Stock issued, (vi) no
shares of Class B Common Stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the
series A preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of Avis Fleet Leasing and
Management Corporation, a Texas corporation and a subsidiary of the Company (the
 Avis Fleet ) and series B preferred stock, par value $.01 per share of Avis
Fleet, and (vii) no shares of Preferred Stock issued. All issued and outstanding
shares of Company Common Stock are, and all shares of Company Common Stock
issuable upon exercise of Options or conversion of the Class B Common Stock
shall be, when issued in accordance with the respective terms thereof, duly
authorized and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and free of
preemptive rights.

(b) Except as set forth in subsection (a) above or in Section 3.5(b) of the
disclosure letter delivered by the Company to Parent prior to the execution of
this Agreement (the  Company Disclosure Letter ), the Company does not have any

13 

shares of its capital stock issued or outstanding and there are no outstanding
subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, convertible securities, rights or
other agreements or commitments (i) to which the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries is a party of any character relating to the issued or unissued
capital stock or other equity interests of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries, or (ii) obligating the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company to
(A) issue, transfer or sell any shares of capital stock or other equity
interests of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or securities
convertible into or exchangeable for such shares or equity interests, (B) grant,
extend or enter into any such subscription, option, warrant, call, convertible
securities or other right, agreement, arrangement or commitment to repurchase,
(C) redeem or otherwise acquire any such shares of capital stock or other equity
interests or (D) provide a material amount of funds to, or make any material
investment (in the form of a loan, capital contribution or otherwise) in, any
Person.

(c) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has outstanding bonds,
debentures, notes or other obligations, the holders of which have the right to
vote (or which are convertible into or exercisable for securities having the
right to vote) with the stockholders of the Company or such Subsidiary on any
matter. Except as set forth in Section 3.5(c) of the Company Disclosure Letter,
there are no voting trusts or other agreements or understandings to which the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party with respect to the voting of the
capital stock or other equity interest of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries.

3.6 SUBSIDIARIES.

(a) Section 3.6(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth a complete
and accurate list of each Subsidiary of the Company. Except as set forth in
Section 3.6 of the Company Disclosure Letter, all outstanding equity securities
or other equity interests in each Subsidiary of the Company (i) are owned of
record and beneficially by the Company or another of the Company s wholly owned
Subsidiaries, free of all liens, claims, charges or encumbrances, and (ii) have
been duly authorized, and are validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and
free of preemptive rights. Section 3.6(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets
forth all debt securities in excess of $500,000 issued by the Company or any
Subsidiary of the Company.

(b) Except as set forth in Section 3.6(b) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company owns, directly or
indirectly, a material amount of any capital stock, interest or equity
investment or debt security in any corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, joint venture, business, trust or other entity other than interests in
another Subsidiary of the Company.

14 

3.7 NO CONFLICT; REQUIRED FILINGS AND CONSENTS.

(a) Except for (i) applicable requirements of (A) the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), (B) the Hart-Scott-Rodino
Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the  HSR Act ), and any similar
foreign competition laws applicable hereto, and (C) any state securities or blue
sky laws applicable hereto, (ii) the filing and recordation of the Certificate
of Merger, as required by the DGCL, and (iii) as set forth in Section 3.7(a) of
the Company Disclosure Letter, neither the execution and delivery of this
Agreement by the Company nor the consummation by the Company of the Transactions
contemplated hereby shall require on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary
of the Company any filing with, or obtaining of, any permit, authorization,
consent or approval of, or any notice to, any court, tribunal, legislative,
executive or regulatory authority or agency (a  Governmental Entity ), where the
failure to so file or obtain would, individually or in the aggregate, result in
a Material Adverse Effect or would materially impair the Company s ability to
consummate the Transactions.

(b) Except as set forth in Section 3.7(b) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company nor
the consummation by the Company of the Transactions will (i) conflict with or
result in any breach of any provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company or the Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company
or equivalent organizational documents of any Subsidiary of the Company, (ii)
result in a violation or breach of, or constitute (with or without due notice or
lapse of time or both) a default under, or give rise to any right of
termination, cancellation, suspension, modification or acceleration of any
obligation under, or result in the creation of a lien under, any of the terms,
conditions or provisions of, or otherwise require the consent or waiver of, or
notice to, any other party under, any bond, note, mortgage, indenture, other
evidence of indebtedness, guarantee, license, agreement or other contract or
instrument ( Contract ) to which the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company is
a party or by which any of them or any of their respective properties or assets
is bound, (iii) violate any law, statute, rule, regulation, order, writ,
injunction or decree applicable to the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or
any of their respective properties or assets, or (iv) require the Company to pay
any existing indebtedness where such violations, breaches, defaults or rights,
in the case of clause (ii) or (iii), would, individually or in the aggregate,
result in a Material Adverse Effect or would materially impair the Company s
ability to consummate the Transactions.

15 

3.8 SEC DOCUMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

(a) The Company has filed all forms, reports and documents required to be
filed with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act since December 31, 1998
(collectively, the  Company SEC Reports ). The Company SEC Reports, as of their
respective filing dates, (i) did not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary
in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under
which they were made, not misleading, and (ii) complied in all material respects
with the then applicable requirements of the Exchange Act, the Securities Act of
1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ) and the applicable rules and regulations
thereunder. No Subsidiary of the Company is required to file any forms, reports
or other documents with the SEC.

(b) The consolidated financial statements (including all related notes)
included in the Company SEC Reports fairly present the consolidated financial
position of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the respective
dates thereof, and the results of operations and the changes in cash flows of
the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the respective periods set
forth therein. Each of the consolidated financial statements (including all
related notes) included in the Company SEC Reports has been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied
( GAAP ), except as otherwise noted therein, and subject, in the case of interim
financial statements, to normal and recurring year-end audit adjustments.

3.9 NO UNDISCLOSED LIABILITIES. Except as and to the extent disclosed in
Section 3.9 of the Company Disclosure Letter or reflected or reserved against in
the Company s consolidated balance sheets included in the Company SEC Reports,
and except for liabilities and obligations incurred in the ordinary course of
business, consistent with past practice since December 31, 1999, neither the
Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company has any liabilities or obligations of
any nature, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise, that would be
required by GAAP to be reflected on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company
and its Subsidiaries (or in the notes thereto).

3.10 ABSENCE OF CERTAIN CHANGES. Except as contemplated by this Agreement
or set forth in Section 3.10 of the Company Disclosure Letter or in the Form
10-Q of the Company filed with respect to the quarter ended June 30, 2000, since
June 30, 2000, (a) the businesses of the Company and its Subsidiaries have been
conducted in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, (b)
neither the Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company has taken any action

16 

which, if taken after the date hereof, would violate Section 5.1 hereof if taken
without the approval of Parent, and (c) there has not occurred any event, circumstance or condition which, individually or together with all such events, circumstances or conditions, has resulted or would result in a Material Adverse
Effect.

3.11 PROXY STATEMENT. None of the information supplied by the Company for
inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement shall, at the
time it is filed with the SEC, at the time it is first mailed to the Company s
stockholders, or at the time of the Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be
stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of
the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, except that no
representation or warranty is made by the Company as to any information supplied
by Parent, PHH or Merger Sub to the Company for inclusion or incorporation by
reference in the Proxy Statement. The Proxy Statement shall comply as to form in
all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder.

3.12 LITIGATION. Except as specifically disclosed in the Company SEC
Reports or set forth in Section 3.12 of the Company Disclosure Letter, there is
no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation pending or, to the
knowledge of the Company, threatened against or involving the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries, at law or in equity, by or before any Governmental Entity
which (i), as of the date hereof, questions or challenges the validity of this
Agreement or which (ii), if adversely determined, would result in a Material
Adverse Effect or would materially impair or delay the ability of the Company to
consummate the Transactions to be consummated by it.

3.13 TAXES. Except as set forth in Section 3.13 of the Company Disclosure
Letter:

(a) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has (i) duly and timely filed
(or there has been filed on their behalf) with the appropriate Governmental
Entities all material Tax Returns (as defined below) required to be filed by it
and all such material Tax Returns are true, correct and complete; (ii) duly paid
in full (or there has been duly paid on its behalf) all Taxes (as defined below)
shown on such Tax Returns that are due and payable; and (iii) made adequate
provision, in accordance with GAAP (or adequate provision has been made on its
behalf), for the payment of all current Taxes not yet due.

(b) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has complied in all material
respects with all applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to the

17 

payment and withholding of Taxes and has, within the time and the manner pre
scribed by law, withheld and paid over the proper Governmental Entities all
material amounts required to be so withheld and paid over.

(c) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has requested an
extension of time within which to file any material Tax Return in respect of a
taxable year which has not since been filed and no outstanding waivers or
comparable consents regarding the application of the statute of limitations
with respect to material Taxes or material Tax Returns has been given by or on
behalf of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

(d) No material federal, state, local or foreign audits, examinations or
other administrative court proceedings have been commenced or, to the Company s
knowledge, are threatened with regard to any material Taxes or material Tax
Returns of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. No written notification has
been received by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that such an audit,
examination or other proceeding is pending or threatened with respect to any
material Taxes due from or with respect to or attributable to the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries or any material Tax Return filed by or with respect to the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

(e) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any
agreement, plan, contract or arrangement that could result, separately or in the
aggregate, in a payment of (i) any  excess parachute payments  within the
meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ), or (ii) any amount that would not be deductible under Section 162(m) of
the Code.

(f) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any
material tax sharing, tax indemnity or other agreement or arrangement.

(g) There are no material liens for Taxes upon the assets of the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries except liens for Taxes not yet due and payable.

(h) For purposes of this Agreement,  Taxes  shall mean any and all taxes,
charges, fees, levies or other assessments, including income, gross receipts,
excise, real or personal property, sales, withholding, social security,
occupation, use, service, service use, value added, license, net worth, payroll,
franchise, transfer and recording taxes, fees and charges, imposed by the United
States Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ) or any taxing authority (whether
domestic or foreign including any state, local or foreign government or any
subdivision or taxing agency thereof (including a United States possession)),
whether computed on a separate, consolidated, unitary, combined or any other
basis; and such term shall include any interest,

18 

penalties or additional amounts attributable to, or imposed upon, or with
respect to, any such taxes, charges, fees, levies or other assessments. For
purposes of this Agreement,  Tax Return  shall mean any report, return,
document, declaration or other information or filing required to be supplied to
any taxing authority or jurisdiction (foreign or domestic) with respect to
Taxes.

3.14 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.

(a) Each material employee benefit plan, program, arrangement or agreement,
including each  employee benefit plan,  within the meaning of Section 3(3) of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), in
each case, maintained by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to which the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries contributes or is required to contribute
(each, a  Plan  collectively,  Plans ) is listed in Section 3.14(a) of the
Company Disclosure Letter. None of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has
any commitment or formal plan to create any additional employee benefit plan or
modify or change any existing Plan (except as required to maintain the
tax-qualified status of any Plan intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the
Code).

(b) Except as disclosed in the Company SEC Reports or Section 3.14(b) of
the Company Disclosure Letter or to the extent that any breach of the
representations set forth in this sentence would not have a Material Adverse
Effect: (i) each Plan (other than any Plan that is a  multiemployer plan, 
within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA (a  Multiemployer Plan )) is
in compliance with applicable law and has been administered and operated in all
respects in accordance with its terms; (ii) each Plan (other than any
Multiemployer Plan) which is intended to be  qualified  within the meaning of
Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ),
has received a favorable determination letter regarding its tax-qualified status
from the IRS and the Company is not aware of any circumstances that could
reasonably be expected to result in the revocation of such letter; (iii) the
actuarial present value of the accumulated plan benefits (whether or not vested)
under each Plan covered by Title IV of ERISA (other than any Multiemployer Plan)
as of the close of its most recent plan year did not exceed the fair value of
the assets allocable thereto; (iv) no Plan covered by Title IV of ERISA (other
than any Multiemployer Plan) has been terminated and no proceedings have been
instituted to terminate or appoint a trustee to administer any such plan; (v) no
 reportable event  (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) has occurred with
respect to any Plan covered by Title IV of ERISA (other than any Multiemployer
Plan); (vi) no Plan (other than any Multiemployer Plan) subject to Section 412
of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA nor any such employee benefit plan sponsored
or maintained by any entity that, together with the Company, would be deemed a
 single employer  within the meaning of Section 4001(b) of ERISA (an

19 

ERISA Affiliate ) has incurred any accumulated funding deficiency within the
meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, or obtained a waiver
of any minimum funding standard or an extension of any amortization period under
Section 412 of the Code or Section 303 or 304 of ERISA; (vii) the Company and
each Subsidiary of the Company have made all contributions to each Plan required
by the terms of each such Plan or any collectively bargained agreement; (viii)
neither the Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company has incurred any
unsatisfied withdrawal liability under Part 1 of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA
to any Multiemployer Plan; (ix) no Plan provides medical, surgical,
hospitalization, death or similar benefits (whether or not insured) for
employees or former employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for
periods extending beyond their retirement or other termination of service, other
than (1) coverage mandated by applicable law, (2) death benefits under any
 pension plan,  or (3) benefits the full cost of which is borne by the current
or former employee (or his or her beneficiary); (x) neither the Company nor any
of its Subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any other
 disqualified person  or  party in interest  (as defined in Section 4975(e)(2)
of the Code and Section 3(14) of ERISA, respectively) has engaged in any
transactions in connection with any Plan that would result in the imposition of
a penalty pursuant to Section 502(i) of ERISA or a tax pursuant to Section 4975
of the Code; (xi) there has been no failure of a Plan that is a group health
plan (as defined in Section 5000(b)(1) of the Code) to meet the requirements of
Section 4980B(f) of the Code with respect to a qualified beneficiary (as defined
in Section 4980B(g) of the Code); (xii) there are not pending or, to the
Company s knowledge, threatened, claims by or on behalf of any Plan, by any
employee or beneficiary covered under any such Plan or otherwise involving any
such Plan (other than routine claims for benefits payable in the ordinary
course, and appeals of denied claims); and (xiii) no liability under Title IV or
Section 302 of ERISA has been incurred by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate
that has not been satisfied in full, and no condition exists that could
reasonably be expected to present a material risk to the Company or any ERISA
Affiliate of incurring any such liability, other than liability for premiums due
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (which premiums have been paid when
due).

(c) The Company has heretofore delivered or made available to Parent true
and complete copies of each Plan and any amendments thereto, any related trust
or other funding vehicle, any summaries required under ERISA or the Code, the
most recent annual reports filed with the IRS, and the most recent determination
letter received from the IRS with respect to each Plan intended to qualify under
Section 401(a) of the Code.

(d) Except as set forth in Section 3.14(d) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, the consummation of the Transactions shall not, either alone or in

20 

combination with another event, (i) entitle any current or former employee or
officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to severance pay, unemployment
compensation or any other payment or benefit, except as expressly provided in
this Agreement, or (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, or increase
the amount of compensation due any such employee or officer.

3.15 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS. Except as set forth in Section 3.15
of the Company Disclosure Letter, each of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and
their respective properties, assets and operations, are in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable statutes, laws, rules, regulations,
judgments, decrees, orders, arbitration awards, franchises, permits or licenses
or other governmental authorizations or approvals which are material to the
business and operations of the Company or its Subsidiaries. Except as set forth
in Section 3.15 of the Company Disclosure Letter, the Company and its
Subsidiaries hold all licenses, franchises, ordinances, authorizations, permits,
certificates, variances, exemptions, concessions, leases, rights of way,
easements, instruments, orders and approvals, domestic or foreign ( Permits ),
required for the ownership of the assets and operation of the businesses of the
Company and its Subsidiaries where the failure of which to hold would,
individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect. Except as
set forth in Section 3.15 of the Company Disclosure Letter, all Permits of the
Company and its Subsidiaries required under any statute, law, rule or regulation
of any Governmental Entity are in full force and effect where the failure to be
in full force and effect would have a Material Adverse Effect.

3.16 MATERIAL CONTRACTS.

(a) Except as set forth in Section 3.16(a) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company is a party to, or
bound by, any Contract which is material to the Company and its Subsidiaries,
taken as a whole (a  Company Material Contract ). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
each of the following Contracts shall be a Company Material Contract and shall
be set forth in Section 3.16 of the Disclosure Schedule:

(i) any contracts or agreements under which the Company or any
Subsidiary of the Company has any outstanding indebtedness, obligation or
liability for borrowed money or the deferred purchase price of property or has
the right or obligation to incur any such indebtedness, obligation or liability
in excess of $500,000;

(ii) any bonds or agreements of guarantee or indemnification in which
the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company acts as surety, guarantor or
indemnitor with respect to any obligation (fixed or contingent) in

21 

excess of $500,000, other than any such guarantees of the obligations of the
Company or any Subsidiary of the Company;

(iii) any noncompete agreements to which the Company, any Subsidiary of
the Company or any Affiliate thereof is a party;

(iv) any partnership and joint venture agreements; and

(v) any Contract that provides for the payment of any amount or
entitles any Person to receive any other benefit or exercise any other right as
a result of the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement, or the
consummation of the Transactions, including the Merger.

(b) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary of the Company is in breach of
or default under the terms of any Company Material Contract where such breach or
default would have a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of the Company,
no other party to any Company Material Contract is in breach of or default under
the terms of any Company Material Contract where such breach or default would
have a Material Adverse Effect. Each Company Material Contract is a valid and
binding obligation of the Company or the Subsidiary of the Company which is
party thereto and, to the knowledge of the Company, of each other party thereto,
and is in full force and effect, except that (i) such enforcement may be subject
to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other
similar laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to creditors  rights
generally and (ii) equitable remedies of specific performance and injunctive and
other forms of equitable relief may be subject to equitable defenses and to the
discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

3.17 ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS.

(a) Except as set forth in Section 3.17(a) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is (i) in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable Environmental Laws (as defined below),
which compliance includes the possession by the Company and its Subsidiaries of
all Permits and other governmental authorizations required under applicable
Environmental Laws, and (ii) in compliance with the terms and conditions of such
Permits where the failure to be in compliance would result in a liability or
obligation of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any nature, whether or
not accrued, contingent or otherwise, in an amount exceeding $500,000
individually, and $5,000,000 in the aggregate. Except as set forth in Section
3.17(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter, neither the Company nor any of its
Subsidiaries has received any communication or written notice, whether from a
Governmental Entity, citizens

22 

group, employee or otherwise, that alleges that the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries is not in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws, where the
failure to be in compliance would result in a liability or obligation of the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any nature, whether or not accrued,
contingent or otherwise, in an amount exceeding $500,000 individually, and
$5,000,000 in the aggregate and, to the best knowledge of the Company and its
Subsidiaries after due inquiry, there are no circumstances that may prevent or
interfere with such compliance in the future, where the failure to be in
compliance would result in a liability or obligation of the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries of any nature, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise,
in an amount exceeding $500,000 individually, and $5,000,000 in the aggregate.

(b) Except as set forth in Section 3.17(b) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, there is no Environmental Claim (as defined below) which, if adversely
determined, would result in a liability or obligation of the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise, in an amount
exceeding $500,000 individually, and $5,000,000 in the aggregate, pending or
threatened against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the best
knowledge of the Company and its Subsidiaries after due inquiry, against any
person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries has or may have retained or assumed either contractually or
by operation of law which, if adversely determined, would result in a liability
or obligation of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, whether or not accrued,
contingent or otherwise, in an amount exceeding $500,000 individually, and
$5,000,000 in the aggregate.

(c) Except as set forth in Section 3.17(c) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, there are no past or present actions, activities, circumstances,
conditions, events or incidents, including the Release (as defined below) of any
Hazardous Materials (as defined below), that could form the basis of any
material Environmental Claim (as defined below) against the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries or, to the best knowledge of the Company and its Subsidiaries
after due inquiry, against any Person or entity whose liability for any material
Environmental Claim the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has or may have
retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law.

(d) Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as
set forth in Section 3.17(d) of the Company Disclosure Letter, all underground
storage tanks owned, operated, or leased by the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries and which are subject to regulation under the federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (or equivalent state or local law regulating
underground storage tanks) meet the technical standards prescribed at Title 40
Code of Federal Regulations Part 280 which became effective December 22, 1998
(or any

23 

applicable state or local law requirements which are more stringent than such
technical standards or which became effective before such date) where the
failure to meet such standards or requirements would result in a liability or
obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary, whether or not accrued, contingent
or otherwise, in an amount exceeding $500,000 individually, and $5,000,000 in
the aggregate.

(e) The Company has provided to Parent true and correct copies of all
material assessments, reports and investigations or audits in the possession of
the Company or its Subsidiaries regarding environmental matters pertaining to,
or the environmental condition of, any property currently or formerly owned,
operated or leased by the Company or its Subsidiaries, or the compliance (or
noncompliance) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries with any Environmental
Laws.

(f) For purposes of this Agreement:

(i)  Environmental Claim  means any claim, action, cause of action,
investigation or notice (written or oral) by any person or entity alleging
potential liability (including potential liability for investigatory costs,
cleanup costs, governmental response costs, natural resources damages, property
damages, personal injuries, or penalties) arising out of, based on or resulting
from (a) the presence, or Release into the environment, of any Hazardous
Materials at any location, whether or not owned or operated by the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries or (b) circumstances forming the basis of any violation,
or alleged violation, of any Environmental Law.

(ii)  Environmental Laws  means all federal, interstate, state, local
and foreign laws and regulations relating to pollution or protection of human
health, safety, or the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground
water, land surface or subsurface strata), including laws and regulations
relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of Hazardous
Materials, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution,
use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials.

(iii)  Hazardous Materials  means chemicals, pollutants, contaminants,
wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, radioactive materials, asbestos,
petroleum and petroleum products.

(iv)  Release  shall mean releasing, spilling, leaking, pumping,
pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, escaping, leaching, disposing or
dumping.

24 

3.18 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. Except for the rights (the  Licensed Rights )
licensed to the Company pursuant to the Master License Agreement, dated as of
July 30, 1997, among Cendant Car Rental, Inc., Avis Rent A Car System, Inc. and
Wizard Co., Inc. (the  Avis License ), either the Company or a Subsidiary of the
Company owns, or is licensed or otherwise possesses legally enforceable rights
to use, all Intellectual Property (as defined below) used in their respective
businesses where the failure to own, license or otherwise possess such
Intellectual Property would result in a Material Adverse Effect and the
consummation of the Transactions shall not alter or impair such rights in any
material respect. Except as set forth in Section 3.18 of the Company Disclosure
Letter, there are no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened
claims by any Person challenging the use by the Company or its Subsidiaries of
any material trademarks, trade names, service marks, service names, mark
registrations, logos, assumed names, registered and unregistered copyrights,
patents or applications and registrations therefor (collectively, the
 Intellectual Property ) in their respective operations as currently conducted
which, if adversely determined, would result in a Material Adverse Effect. The
conduct of the businesses of the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than the
use by the Company and its Subsidiaries of the Licensed Rights in accordance
with the terms of the Avis License) does not infringe, in any material respect,
upon any intellectual property rights or any other proprietary right of any
Person, and neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has received any written
notice from any other Person pertaining to or challenging the right of the
Company or any Subsidiary to use any of the Intellectual Property. Except as set
forth in Section 3.18 of the Company Disclosure Letter, neither the Company nor
any of its Subsidiaries has made any claim of a violation or infringement by
others of its rights to or in connection with the Intellectual Property used in
their respective businesses which violation or infringement would have a
Material Adverse Effect.

3.19 LABOR MATTERS.

(a) Except as set forth in Section 3.19(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter
or specifically disclosed in the Company SEC Reports, there are no labor or
collective bargaining agreements to which the Company or any Subsidiary of the
Company is a party. To the knowledge of the Company, there is no union
organizing effort pending or threatened against the Company or any Subsidiary of
the Company. Except as set forth in Section 3.19(a) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, there is no labor strike, labor dispute, work slowdown, stoppage or
lockout pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or
affecting the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, which has had or would
result in a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set froth in Section 3.19(a) of
the Company Disclosure Letter, there is no unfair labor practice or labor
arbitration proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened
against the Company or

25 

any Subsidiary of the Company, that has had or would result in a Material
Adverse Effect. The Company and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable laws respecting (i) employment and
employment practices, (ii) terms and conditions of employment and wages and
hours, and (iii) unfair labor practice. Except as set forth in Section 3.19(a)
of the Company Disclosure Letter or specifically disclosed in the Company SEC
Reports, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation pending
or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or involving the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries, at law or in equity, alleging a violation of
applicable laws, rules or regulations respecting employment and employment
practices, terms and conditions of employment and wages and hours, or unfair
labor practice that has had or would result in a Material Adverse Effect.

(b) Except as set forth in Section 3.19(b) of the Company Disclosure
Letter, no grievance or any arbitration proceeding arising out of or under
collective bargaining agreements which would have a Material Adverse Effect is
pending and no claim therefor exists.

(c) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has any liabilities
under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (the  WARN Act )
that has had or would result in a Material Adverse Effect.

3.20 BROKERS OR FINDERS. None of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or
Affiliates has entered into any agreement or arrangement entitling any agent,
broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other firm or Person to any
brokers  or finders  fee or any other commission or similar fee in connection
with any of the Transactions, except Morgan Stanley and Bear, Stearns   Co. Inc.
( Bear Stearns ), whose fees and expenses shall be paid by the Company in
accordance with the Company s agreement with such firm. True and correct copies
of engagement letters between the Company and each of Morgan Stanley and Bear
Stearns have been provided to Parent.

ARTICLE IV 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF 
PARENT, PHH AND MERGER SUB

Each of Parent, PHH and Merger Sub jointly and severally represents and
warrants to the Company as follows:

4.1 ORGANIZATION. Each of Parent, PHH and Merger Sub is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of

26 

the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has the requisite corporate power and
authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business
as it is now being conducted. Merger Sub has not engaged in any activities other
than in connection with or as contemplated by this Agreement and has no material
liabilities other than those incident to its formation and the Transactions.

4.2 AUTHORITY RELATIVE TO THIS AGREEMENT. Each of Parent, PHH and Merger
Sub has the requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to consummate the Transactions. The execution and delivery of this
Agreement by Parent, PHH and Merger Sub, and the consummation of the
Transactions, have been duly authorized by the respective board of directors of
each of Parent, PHH and Merger Sub, and by PHH as the sole stockholder of Merger
Sub, and no other corporate proceeding on the part of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub
is required to authorize this Agreement or to consummate the Transactions, other
than the filing and the recordation of the Certificate of Merger in accordance
with the DGCL. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each of
Parent, PHH and Merger Sub and (assuming due and valid authorization, execution
and delivery hereof by the Company) constitutes a valid and binding agreement of
each of Parent, PHH and Merger Sub, enforceable against each of Parent, PHH and
Merger Sub in accordance with its terms, except that (i) such enforcement may be
subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or
other similar laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to creditor s rights
generally and (ii) equitable remedies of specific performance and injunctive and
other forms of equitable relief may be subject to equitable defenses and to the
discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

4.3 NO CONFLICT; REQUIRED FILINGS AND CONSENTS.

(a) Except (i) for applicable requirements of (A) the Exchange Act, (B) the
HSR Act and any similar foreign competition laws, and (C) any state securities
and blue sky filings applicable hereto, (ii) for the filing and recordation of
the Certificate of Merger, as required by the DGCL, and (iii) as set forth in
the disclosure letter delivered by Parent, PHH and Merger Sub prior to the
execution of this Agreement to the Company (the  Parent Disclosure Letter ),
neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent, PHH and Merger
Sub, nor the consummation by Parent, PHH and Merger Sub of the Transactions,
shall require, on the part of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub, any filing with, or
obtaining of, any permit, authorization, consent or approval of, any
Governmental Entity, except for such filings, permits, authorizations, consents
or approvals the failure of which to make or obtain would not materially impair
the ability of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub to consummate the Transactions.

27 

(b) Except as set forth in Section 4.3(b) of the Parent Disclosure Letter,
neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent, PHH or Merger
Sub, nor the consummation by Parent, PHH or Merger Sub of the Transactions,
shall (i) conflict with or result in a breach of the certificate of
incorporation or by-laws of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub, (ii) result in a
violation or breach of or constitute (with or without due notice or lapse of
time, or both) a default under, or give rise to any right of termination,
cancellation, suspension, modification or acceleration under, or result in the
creation of a lien under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, or
otherwise require the consent or waiver of, or notice to, any other party under,
any material bond note, mortgage, indenture, other evidence of indebtedness,
guarantee, license, agreement or other contract or instrument to which Parent,
PHH or Merger Sub is a party or by which any of them or any of their respective
properties or assets is bound, or (iii) violate any law, statute, rule,
regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree applicable to Parent, PHH or
Merger Sub, or any of their respective properties or assets except, in the case
of clauses (ii) and (iii), for such violations, breaches, defaults or rights
which would not materially impair the ability of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub to
consummate the Transactions.

4.4 PROXY STATEMENT. None of the information supplied by Parent, PHH or
Merger Sub for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement
shall, at the time it is filed with the SEC, at the time it is first mailed to
the Company s stockholders or at the time of the Stockholders Meeting, contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements
therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.

4.5 LITIGATION. Except as set forth in Section 4.5 of the Parent Disclosure
Letter, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation pending
or, to the knowledge of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub, threatened involving Parent,
PHH or Merger Sub, at law or in equity, by or before any Governmental Entity
which questions or challenges the validity of this Agreement or which, if
adversely determined, would materially impair or delay the ability of Parent,
PHH or Merger Sub to consummate the Transactions.

4.6 FINANCING. Parent and PHH have or shall have sufficient cash on hand
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, at such time or times as such funds
are required, to Merger Sub or, as the case may be, the Company, such cash on
hand (i) to pay the Merger Consideration and to pay any other amounts required
to be paid in order to consummate the Transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, including pursuant to Section 2.4, (ii) to pay any fees and expenses
in connection with the Transactions and (iii) to satisfy the obligations to pay
any existing

28 

indebtedness of the Company or its Subsidiaries that is required to be repaid as
a result of the Transactions.

4.7 BROKERS OR FINDERS. None of Parent, PHH, Merger Sub or any of their
respective Affiliates has entered into any agreement or arrangement entitling
any agent, broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other firm or Person
to any brokers  or finders  fee or any other commission or similar fee in
connection with any of the Transactions, except Lehman Brothers and Chase
Securities Inc., whose fees and expenses shall be paid by Parent in accordance
with Parent s agreement with each such firm.

ARTICLE V 
COVENANTS

5.1 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS BY THE COMPANY PENDING THE MERGER. The Company
covenants and agrees that, during the period from the date of this Agreement and
continuing until the earlier to occur of the termination of this Agreement or
the Effective Time, except as contemplated by this Agreement or required by
applicable law or rule of the New York Stock Exchange, unless Parent shall
otherwise agree in writing (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned or delayed), and except as set forth in Section 5.1 of the Company
Disclosure Letter:

(a) the Company shall conduct its business and shall cause the businesses
of its Subsidiaries to be conducted, only in, and the Company and its
Subsidiaries shall not take any action except in, the ordinary course of
business, consistent with past practice; and the Company shall use its
reasonable best efforts to preserve intact the business organizations of the
Company and its Subsidiaries, and to maintain (i) the services of the present
officers, employees and consultants of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (ii)
its existing relations with suppliers, creditors, business associates and others
having business dealings with it; and

(b) without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall
not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to, take any of the following actions:

(i) amend its certificate of incorporation or by-laws;

(ii) issue, sell, pledge, dispose of or encumber, or authorize the
issuance, sale, pledge, disposition or encumbrance of, any shares of capital
stock of any class or any other equity interest, or any options, warrants,
convertible securities or other rights of any kind to acquire any shares of
capital stock, or any

29 

other equity interest in the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (except for the
issuance of shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of Options
outstanding on the date hereof);

(iii) declare, set aside, make or pay any dividend or other
distribution (whether in cash, stock or property or any combination thereof) in
respect of any of its capital stock or any other equity interest, including any
constructive or deemed distributions, and any distribution in connection with
the adoption of a shareholders rights plan, or make any other payments to
stockholders in their capacity as such, except that a wholly owned Subsidiary of
the Company may declare and pay a dividend to its parent;

(iv) split, combine or reclassify any of its capital stock or any other
equity interest or issue or authorize or propose the issuance of any other
securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of its
capital stock or any other equity interest;

(v) redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any
of its capital stock or any other equity interests;

(vi) (A) purchase, acquire, sell, transfer, lease, license, mortgage,
encumber or dispose of any material assets, other than the purchase, sale,
rental and lease of vehicles in the ordinary course of business, consistent with
past practice; (B) acquire (by merger, consolidation or acquisition of stock or
assets or otherwise) any corporation, partnership or other business organization
or division thereof; (C) sell, transfer or dispose of any Subsidiary of the
Company (by merger, consolidation, sale of stock or assets or otherwise); (D)
incur or assume any indebtedness for borrowed money or other liability, other
than in connection with the financing of vehicles in the ordinary course of
business, consistent with past practice; (E) modify, amend or terminate any
confidentiality agreements, standstill agreements or Company Material Contracts
to which the Company or its Subsidiaries is a party or by which it is bound, or
waive, release or assign any material rights or claims, other than in the
ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice; (F) assume,
guarantee, endorse or otherwise become liable or responsible (whether directly,
contingently or otherwise) for the obligations of any other Person, other than
in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice; (G) make any
material loans, advances or capital contributions to, or investments in, any
other Person (other than to its wholly owned Subsidiaries in the ordinary course
of business, consistent with past practice); (H) repurchase, redeem, repay or
take any other action with respect to the issued and outstanding 11% Senior
Subordinated Notes of the Company due May 2009 (the  Notes ), other than
pursuant to Section 5.7; or (I) other than in the ordinary course of business,
consistent with past

30 

practice, enter into any material commitment, transaction, contract or
agreement, including any of the following entered into outside the ordinary
course of business (i) any material capital expenditure, (ii) any material
contract or agreement outside the ordinary course of business, (iii) any
contracts or agreements that cannot be cancelled on notice of thirty (30) days
or less and (iv) any noncompete agreements or other agreements that limit the
ability of the Company to conduct any line of business;

(vii) increase the compensation, severance or other benefits payable or
to become payable to its directors, officers or employees, other than increases
in salary or wages of employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries (who are not
directors or executive officers of the Company) in accordance with past practice
or pursuant to binding commitments made prior to the date hereof, or grant any
severance or termination pay (except payments required to be made under the
Plans or other obligations existing on the date hereof in accordance with the
terms of such obligations) to, or enter into any employment or severance
agreement with, any employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or
establish, adopt, enter into or amend any collective bargaining agreement, Plan,
trust, fund, policy or arrangement for the benefit of any current or former
directors, officers or employees or any of their beneficiaries, except, in each
case, as may be required by law or as would not result in a material increase in
the cost of maintaining such collective bargaining agreement, Plan, trust, fund,
policy or arrangement;

(viii) pay, repurchase, discharge or satisfy any of its material
claims, liabilities or obligations (absolute, accrued, asserted or unasserted,
contingent or otherwise), other than the payment, discharge or satisfaction in
the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, or pursuant to
contractual requirements existing on the date hereof, of claims, liabilities or
obligations reflected or reserved against, in, or contemplated by, the
consolidated financial statements (or the notes thereto) of the Company and its
Subsidiaries;

(ix) take any action to change accounting policies or procedures or any
of its methods of reporting income, deductions or other items for income tax
purposes, except as required by a change in GAAP, SEC position or applicable law
occurring after the date hereof;

(x) approve or authorize any action to be submitted to the stockholders
of the Company for approval other than pursuant to this Agreement;

(xi) make or change any material election with respect to Taxes, agree
or settle any material claim or assessment in respect of Taxes, or agree

31 

to an extension or waiver of the limitation period to any material claim or
assessment in respect of Taxes;

(xii) voluntarily take, or commit to take, any action that would or is
reasonably likely to result in any of the conditions to the Merger set forth in
Article VI not being satisfied or make any representation or warranty of the
Company contained herein that is not qualified as to materiality inaccurate in
any material respect, or any representation or warranty that is qualified as to
materiality untrue in any respect at, or as of any time prior to, the Effective
Time, or that would materially impair the ability of the Company, Parent, PHH or
Merger Sub to consummate the Transactions, including the Merger, in accordance
with the terms hereof or materially delay such consummation; or

(xiii) agree, authorize or announce to take any of the actions
described in subsections (i) through (xii) above.

5.2 NO SOLICITATION.

(a) Except as set forth below, from and after the date hereof and prior to
the Effective Time, the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, through any
Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company, or through any officer, director,
employee, investment banker, agent or other representative of the Company or any
Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company, (i) encourage, invite, initiate or
solicit any inquiries relating to or the submission or making of a proposal by
any Person with respect to a Third-Party Acquisition (as defined below) or (ii)
participate in, or encourage, invite, initiate or solicit, negotiations or
discussions with, or furnish or cause to be furnished any information to, any
Person relating to a Third-Party Acquisition. Upon the execution of this
Agreement, the Company shall immediately (i) cease, or cause to be ceased, any
discussions or negotiations with any Person, entity or group in connection with
any proposed or potential Third-Party Acquisition and shall seek to have
returned to the Company any confidential information provided in any such
discussions or negotiations and (ii) take all actions necessary to rescind the
Company s stock repurchase program authorized by the Board on August 9, 2000.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the Stockholders Meeting, if the
Company, the Board or the Independent Committee, without being in violation of
the terms of this Section 5.2, receives an unsolicited bona fide written
proposal from any Person or group with respect to a Third-Party Acquisition
which could reasonably be expected to result in a Superior Proposal (as defined
below), then the Company may, directly or indirectly, furnish information and
access to such Person or group pursuant to an appropriate confidentiality
agreement, and may participate in discussions and negotiations with, such Person
or group; provided, however, that the terms of such confidentiality agreement
shall have terms that are not less restrictive

32 

than the terms set forth in the confidentiality agreement between the Company
and Parent, dated as of July 31, 2000 (the  Confidentiality Agreement ).

(b) The Company shall within twenty-four (24) hours notify Parent in
writing upon receipt of any proposal, written or oral, relating to a Third-
Party Acquisition or any request for nonpublic information relating to the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with any pending, proposed or
contemplated Third-Party Acquisition or for access to the properties, books or
records of the Company or any Subsidiary by any Person that informs the Board or
the Independent Committee that it is considering making, or has made, a proposal
relating to a Third- Party Acquisition. Such notice shall identify the Person
submitting the proposal, attach a copy of any written correspondence or other
written materials relating to such proposal, summarize any significant terms of
such proposal not reflected in any such attached materials, state whether the
Company is providing or intends to provide the Person or group making such
proposal with access to information concerning the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries, as provided in this Section 5.2 and, if it proposes to provide
such access to information, state that such proposal could reasonably be
expected to result in a Superior Proposal and the basis for such conclusion. The
Company also shall promptly notify Parent of any significant development
relating to any inquiries, discussions, negotiations, proposals or requests for
information concerning any Third-Party Acquisition. The Company shall keep
Parent informed of the status of any such negotiations and shall further update,
to the extent of any significant developments, the information required to be
provided in each notice upon the request of Parent.

(c) Except as provided in subparagraph (d) below, neither the Board nor the
Independent Committee shall (i) withdraw or modify, or propose to withdraw or
modify, or refuse or fail at Parent s request to reaffirm, (A) the approval by
the Board of this Agreement or the Merger, (B) the favorable recommendation of
the Independent Committee and the Board with respect thereto, or (C) the Board s
recommendation to stockholders of the Company that they vote their shares of
Company Common Stock in favor of adoption of this Agreement, and the Board s
direction that this Agreement be submitted to stockholders for such adoption;
(ii) approve or recommend, or propose publicly to approve or recommend, any
Third- Party Acquisition; or (iii) cause the Company to enter into any agreement
in principle, letter of intent, contract, agreement (whether written or oral) or
memorandum of understanding (each, a  Company Acquisition Agreement ) related to
any Third-Party Acquisition.

(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Independent
Committee determines in good faith, after receipt of advice of its outside legal
counsel, that failure to take such action would constitute a breach of the

33 

Board s fiduciary duties to the Company s stockholders under applicable law, the
Independent Committee (and the Board acting on the recommendation of the
Independent Committee) may (i) withdraw or modify its approval or recommendation
of this Agreement and the Merger and disclose such withdrawal or modification to
the Company s stockholders; and, (ii) solely in relation to a Third- Party
Acquisition that constitutes a Superior Proposal, provided the Board, the
Independent Committee and the Company have not violated the terms of this
Section 5.2, (A) recommend such Superior Proposal, and/or (B) following the
Stockholders Meeting, if the Company Stockholder Approval shall not have been
obtained, terminate this Agreement in accordance with Section 7.1(d)(iii) hereof
and, contemporaneously with such termination, cause the Company to enter into a
Company Acquisition Agreement with respect to such Superior Proposal, provided,
however, that (x) prior to taking any of the foregoing actions, the Company
shall have paid Parent by wire transfer the amount payable pursuant to Section
7.3 and (y) prior to taking the action described in clause (B) above, the
Independent Committee shall have (1) given Parent at least three Business Days 
prior written notice that the Company intends to terminate this Agreement and
provided Parent with a reasonable opportunity to respond to any such Superior
Proposal (which response could include a proposal to revise the terms of the
Transactions) and (2) fully considered any such response by Parent and concluded
that, notwithstanding such response, such proposal continues to be a Superior
Proposal in relation to the Transactions, as the terms of the Transactions may
be proposed to be revised by Parent s response. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the obligation of the Company to duly call, give notice of, convene and hold the
Stockholders Meeting in accordance with Section 2.3 hereof shall not be affected
by the commencement, proposal, public disclosure or communication to the Company
of a Third-Party Acquisition or a Superior Proposal or by the taking of any
action by the Board or the Independent Committee in accordance with this Section
5.2. No action taken by the Board or the Independent Committee in accordance
with this Section 5.2 shall constitute a breach of any other section of this
Agreement.

(e) As used in this Agreement, the term  Third-Party Acquisition  shall
mean any of the following events: (i) the acquisition of the Company by merger,
purchase of stock or assets, joint venture or otherwise by, or a  merger of
equals  with, any Person (which includes a  person,  as such term is defined in
Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than a member of the Acquisition
Group (a  Third Party  (ii) the acquisition by a Third Party of any material
portion (which shall include twenty percent (20%) or more) of the assets of the
Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (iii) the acquisition by a Third
Party of twenty percent (20%) or more of the outstanding shares of Company
Common Stock; (iv) the adoption by the Company of a plan of liquidation or the
declaration or payment of an extraordinary dividend; or (v) the repurchase by
the Company or any of its

34 

Subsidiaries of more than twenty percent (20%) of the outstanding shares of
Company Common Stock.

(f) For purposes of this Agreement,  Superior Proposal  means any bona fide
written proposal to acquire, directly or indirectly, for consideration
consisting of cash and/or securities, all of the shares of Company Common Stock
then outstanding or all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to be
followed by a pro rata distribution of the sale proceeds to stockholders of the
Company, that (i) is not subject to any financing conditions or contingencies,
(ii) provides holders of Company Common Stock with per share consideration that
the Independent Committee determines in good faith, after receipt of advice of
its financial advisor, is more favorable from a financial point of view than the
consideration to be received by holders of Company Common Stock in the Merger,
(iii) is determined by the Independent Committee in its good faith judgment,
after receipt of advice of its financial advisor and outside legal counsel, to
be likely of being completed (taking into account all legal, financial,
regulatory and other aspects of the proposal, the Person making the proposal and
the expected timing to complete the proposal), (iv) does not, in the definitive
Company Acquisition Agreement, contain any  due diligence  conditions, and (v)
has not been obtained by or on behalf of the Company in violation of this
Section 5.2.

5.3 ACCESS TO INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIALITY.

(a) Until the Effective Date, the Company shall (and shall cause its
Subsidiaries to) afford to the officers, employees, accountants, counsel,
financing sources and other representatives of Parent, reasonable access during
normal business hours to its properties, books, contracts, commitments and
records; furnish to Parent all information concerning its business, properties,
and personnel as Parent may reasonably request or has reasonably requested; and
use reasonable best efforts to make available during normal business hours to
the officers, employees, accountants, counsel, financing sources and other
representatives of Parent the appropriate individuals (including management
personnel, attorneys, accountants and other professionals) for discussion of the
Company s business, properties, prospects and personnel as Parent may reasonably
request.

(b) Parent shall keep all information disclosed to the persons identified
in clause (a) above pursuant to this Agreement confidential in accordance with
the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement.

(c) As soon as practicable (but in no case later than 21 days) after the
execution of this Agreement, the Company shall permit Parent to electronically
link the Company s financial reporting system to Parent s financial reporting

35 

consolidation system ( Hyperion ). The link to Hyperion will be completed by
Parent s financial reporting staff, with assistance from the Company s
accounting staff, at no incremental cost to the Company. Parent will provide the
necessary Hyperion and ancillary software to be installed on a computer in the
Company s accounting department.

5.4 CONSENTS; APPROVALS.

(a) The Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall each use its reasonable best
efforts (which efforts, to the extent reasonably practicable, shall be made
prior to the consummation of the Merger), and cooperate with each other, to
obtain as promptly as practicable all consents, waivers, approvals,
authorizations or orders (including all rulings and approvals of all United
States and foreign Governmental Entities), and the Company, Parent, PHH and
Merger Sub shall make all filings (including all filings with United States and
foreign Governmental Entities) required in connection with the authorization,
execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, Parent, PHH and Merger
Sub and the consummation by them of the Transactions.

(b) Each party hereto shall make an appropriate filing of a notification
and report form pursuant to the HSR Act with respect to the Transactions within
fifteen Business Days after the date hereof, shall as promptly as practicable
supply any additional information and documentary material that may be requested
pursuant to the HSR Act, and shall use reasonable best efforts to obtain early
termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act. In addition, each party
hereto shall promptly make any other filing that may be required under any
antitrust law or by any antitrust authority and shall as promptly as practicable
supply and additional information and documentary material that may be required
in connection therewith.

5.5 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.

(a) From and after the Effective Date, Parent and the Surviving Corporation
and their respective successors shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each
Person who is now, or has been at any time prior to the date hereof or who
becomes prior to the Effective Time, an officer or director of the Company or
any of the Subsidiaries (the  Covered Parties ) against all losses, claims,
damages, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses),
liabilities or judgments or amounts that are paid in settlement with the
approval of the indemnifying party (which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) incurred in connection with any threatened or actual
action, suit or proceeding based in whole or in part on or arising in whole or
in part out of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the
Company ( Indemnified Liabilities ), including all

36 

Indemnified Liabilities based in whole or in part on, or arising in whole or in
part out of, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, in each
case to the fullest extent that a corporation is permitted by law to indemnify
its own directors or officers, as the case may be. In the event any such claim,
action, suit, proceeding or investigation is brought against any Covered Party,
the indemnifying parties shall assume and direct all aspects of the defense
thereof, including settlement, and the Covered Party shall cooperate in the
defense of any such matter. The Covered Party shall have a right to participate
in (but not control) the defense of any such matter with its own counsel and at
its own expense. Notwithstanding the right of the indemnifying parties to assume
and control the defense of such litigation, claim or proceeding, such Covered
Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the
defense of such litigation, claim or proceeding, and the indemnifying parties
shall bear the fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel and shall pay
such fees, costs and expenses promptly after receipt of an invoice from such
Covered Party if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying parties to
represent such Covered Party would present such counsel with a conflict of
interest, (ii) the defendants in, or targets of, any such litigation, claim or
proceeding shall have been advised by counsel that there may be legal defenses
available to it or to other Covered Parties which are different from or in
addition to those available to the indemnifying parties or (iii) the
indemnifying parties shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to such
Covered Party, in the exercise of the Covered Party s reasonable judgment, to
represent such Covered Party within a reasonable time after notice of the
institution of such litigation, claim or proceeding. The Covered Parties as a
group shall be represented by a single law firm (plus no more than one local
counsel in any jurisdiction) with respect to each such matter unless there is,
under applicable standards of professional conduct, a conflict on any
significant issue between the positions of any two or more Covered Parties. The
indemnifying parties shall not settle any such matter unless (i) the Covered
Party gives prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed, or (ii) the terms of the settlement provide that the Covered Party
shall have no responsibility for the discharge of any settlement amount and
impose no other obligations or duties on the Covered Party, and the settlement
discharges all rights against the Covered Party with respect to such matter. Any
Covered Party wishing to claim indemnification under this Section 5.5, upon
learning of any such claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation, shall
promptly notify Parent and the Surviving Corporation (but the failure so to
notify shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability which it may
have under this Section 5.5, except to the extent such failure materially
prejudices the indemnifying parties). Each Covered Party shall be entitled to
the advancement of expenses to the full extent permitted by law in connection
with any such action (subject to tendering any undertaking to repay such
expenses, to the extent required by applicable law). Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event that there is any conflict between this Section 5.5(a)
and the terms of the Amended and

37 

Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Amended and Restated By-Laws of the
Company, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and/or Amended
and Restated By-laws, as the case may be, shall prevail.

(b) All rights to indemnification, all limitations on liability and all
rights to advancement of expenses existing in favor of a Covered Party as
provided herein, in the Company s Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-Laws or other indemnification agreements
as in effect as of the date hereof shall survive the Merger and shall continue
in full force and effect, without any amendment thereto, for a period of six
years from the Effective Time to the extent such rights are consistent with
applicable law; provided that in the event any claim or claims are asserted or
made within such six-year period, all rights to indemnification in respect of
any such claim or claims shall continue until disposition of any and all such
claims; provided further, that any determination required to be made with
respect to whether a Covered Party s conduct complies with the standards set
forth under applicable law, the Company s Amended Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-Laws or such agreements, as the case may
be, shall be made by independent legal counsel selected by the Covered Party and
reasonably acceptable to the Surviving Corporation.

(c) In the event that Cendant or the Surviving Corporation or any of their
respective successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any other
Person and shall not be the surviving corporation or entity of such
consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers or conveys all or substantially all of
its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, to the
extent necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Section 5.5, proper
provision shall be made so that such successors, assigns and transferees, as the
case may be, assume the obligations set forth in this Section 5.5, and none of
the actions described in the foregoing clauses (i) or (ii) shall be taken until
such provision is made.

(d) For a period of six years after the Effective Time, Cendant shall cause
the Surviving Corporation and its successors to maintain in effect, without any
lapses in coverage, policies of directors  and officers  liability insurance (or
a  tail  policy) for the benefit of those Persons who are covered by the
Company s directors  and officers  liability insurance policies as of the date
hereof, providing coverage with respect to matters occurring prior to the
Effective Time that is at least equal to the coverage provided under the
Company s current directors  and officers  liability insurance policies to the
extent that such liability insurance can be maintained at an annual cost to the
Surviving Corporation of not greater than 200 percent of the premium for the
current Company directors  and officers  liability insurance; provided that if
such insurance (or  tail  policy) cannot be so maintained at such cost, the
Surviving Corporation shall maintain as much of such insurance as

38 

can be so maintained at a cost equal to 200 percent (200%) of the current annual
premiums of the Company for such insurance.

5.6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.

(a) During the period commencing at the Effective Time and ending on
December 31, 2001, Parent shall cause all current and former employees and
officers of the Company and its Subsidiaries who are entitled to receive
compensation and benefits as of the Effective Time, other than employees covered
by collective bargaining agreements, to receive (i) the salary or wage level and
bonus opportunity, to the extent applicable, not materially less favorable in
the aggregate than that in effect on the date hereof and (ii) benefits,
perquisites and other terms and conditions of employment that are not materially
less favorable in the aggregate than the benefits, perquisites and other terms
and conditions that they were entitled to receive on the date hereof.

(b) Subject to Section 5.6(a) hereof, from and after the Effective Time,
Parent shall honor, pay, perform and satisfy any and all liabilities,
obligations and responsibilities to, or in respect of, each employee and officer
of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and each former employee and officer of the
Company and its Subsidiaries, as of the Effective Time arising under the terms
of, or in connection with, any employee benefit, fringe benefit, deferred
compensation or incentive compensation plan or arrangement or any employment,
consulting, retention, severance, change-of-control or similar agreement, in
each case, to the extent listed in Section 3.14(a) or 3.16(a) of the Company
Disclosure Letter and in accordance with the terms thereof in effect on the date
hereof. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until December 31,
2001, Parent shall keep in effect all severance and retention plans, practices
and policies that are applicable to employees and officers of the Company and
its Subsidiaries as of the date hereof.

(c) Parent shall, or shall cause the Surviving Corporation and its
Subsidiaries to, give Continuing Employees full credit for purposes of
eligibility and vesting under any employee benefit plans or arrangements
maintained by Parent, the Surviving Corporation or any Subsidiary of Parent or
the Surviving Corporation for such Continuing Employees  service with the
Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any of their respective predecessors
to the same extent recognized by the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or
any such predecessor for similar purposes immediately prior to the Effective
Time. In addition, Parent shall, or shall cause the Surviving Corporation and
its Subsidiaries to, give Continuing Employees full credit for purposes of the
determination of benefits under any employee benefit plans or arrangements in
effect as of the date hereof maintained by Parent for such Continuing Employees 
service with the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company

39 

or any of their respective predecessors to the same extent recognized by the
Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any such predecessor for similar
purposes immediately prior to the Effective Time. Parent shall, or shall cause
the Surviving Corporation and its Subsidiaries to, (i) waive all limitations as
to preexisting conditions, exclusions and waiting periods with respect to
participation and coverage requirements applicable to the Continuing Employees
under any welfare plan that such employees may be eligible to participate in
after the Effective Time, other than limitations or waiting periods that are
already in effect with respect to such employees and that have not been
satisfied as of the Effective Time under any welfare plan maintained for the
Continuing Employees immediately prior to the Effective Time, and (ii) provide
each Continuing Employee with credit for any co- payments and deductibles paid
prior to the Effective Time in satisfying any applicable co-payment, deductible
or out-of-pocket requirements in respect of the year during which the Effective
Time occurs under any welfare plans that such employees are eligible to
participate in after the Effective Time to the same extent as if those
deductibles or co-payments had been paid under the welfare plans for which such
employees are eligible after the Effective Time.

(d) Nothing contained herein shall constitute assurance of continued
employment of any officer or employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
following the Effective Time.

5.7 NOTE TENDER OFFER. Parent may, in its sole and absolute discretion,
commence a tender offer and consent solicitation to repurchase any and all of
the outstanding Notes (the  Note Tender Offer ) on terms and conditions
determined solely by Parent. The Note Tender Offer shall be effected in
compliance with applicable laws and SEC rules and regulations. The Company shall
cooperate with Parent, PHH and Merger Sub in connection with the preparation of
all documents and the making of all filings required in connection with the Note
Tender Offer and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause
to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all other things
necessary, proper or advisable to consummate the Note Tender Offer; provided,
however, that it is understood and agreed by the parties hereto that (i) such
Note Tender Offer shall be consummated no earlier than the Closing Date, (ii)
the Company shall have no obligation to provide any funds to consummate the Note
Tender Offer, and (iii) Parent or PHH shall provide the funds required to
consummate the Note Tender Offer on or after the Effective Time, together with
all related fees and expenses.

5.8 NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN MATTERS. The Company shall give prompt notice
to Parent, and Parent (on behalf of itself, PHH and Merger Sub) shall give
prompt notice to the Company, of (i) the occurrence or non-occurrence of any
event known to it, the occurrence or non-occurrence of which is reasonably
likely to

40 

cause any representation or warranty of such party contained in this Agreement
to be materially untrue or inaccurate, (ii) any failure of the Company or
Parent, PHH or Merger Sub, as the case may be, to comply with or satisfy, or the
occurrence or non-occurrence of any event known to it, the occurrence or
non-occurrence of which is reasonably likely to cause the failure by such party
materially to comply with or satisfy any covenant, condition or agreement to be
complied with or satisfied by it hereunder; (iii) the occurrence of any other
event known to it which would be reasonably likely (A) to have a Material
Adverse Effect or (B) to cause any condition set forth in Article VI to be
unsatisfied in any material respect at any time prior to the Effective Time; or
(iv) any action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation pending or, to the
knowledge of the Company, threatened which questions or challenges the validity
of this Agreement; provided, however, that the delivery of any notice pursuant
to this Section 5.8 shall not limit or otherwise affect the remedies available
hereunder to the party receiving such notice.

5.9 FURTHER ACTION. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereof
each of the parties hereto shall use its reasonable best efforts to take, or
cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all other things
necessary, proper or advisable to consummate and make effective as promptly as
practicable the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, to obtain in a
timely manner all necessary waivers, consents and approvals and to effect all
necessary registrations and filings, and otherwise to satisfy or cause to be
satisfied all conditions precedent to its obligations under this Agreement.

5.10 PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS. Parent, PHH, Merger Sub and the Company shall
consult with each other before issuing any press release or making any public
statement with respect to this Agreement, the Merger or the other Transactions
and shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement
without the prior consent of the other parties, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld; provided, however, that any party may, without the prior consent of
the others, issue such press release or make such public statement as may, upon
the advice of counsel, be required by law or the rules and regulations of The
New York Stock Exchange, in advance of obtaining such prior consent, in which
case, the parties shall cooperate to reach mutual agreement as to the language
of any such report, statement or press release. Immediately following the
execution and delivery of this Agreement, Parent, PHH, Merger Sub and the
Company are each issuing press releases to be mutually agreed upon with respect
to this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions.

5.11 TRANSFER TAXES. Parent shall pay any real property or other similar
transfer Taxes incurred in connection with the consummation of the Offer and the
Merger.

41 

5.12 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. Upon request by Parent or PHH, the Company shall
use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with Parent and PHH in
connection with preparing such financial statements as are required by
applicable law and by SEC rules and regulations to be filed by PHH with the SEC
in connection with the prospectus for the medium term notes to be issued by PHH;
such cooperation shall include, without limitation, providing all information
reasonably requested by Parent or PHH.

5.13 SECTION 16 MATTERS. The Company shall take all such steps as may be
required to cause any dispositions of Company Common Stock (including derivative
securities with respect to the Company Common Stock) resulting from the
Transactions contemplated by this Agreement by each officer or director who is
subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with
respect to the Company to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the
Exchange Act, such steps to be taken in accordance with the No-Action Letter,
dated January 12, 1999, issued by the Commission to Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher   Flom LLP.

ARTICLE VI

CONDITIONS TO THE MERGER

6.1 CONDITIONS TO EACH PARTY S OBLIGATION TO EFFECT THE MERGER. The
respective obligations of each party to effect the Merger shall be subject to
the fulfillment or waiver (to the extent permitted by applicable law) at or
prior to the Effective Time of the following conditions:

(a) STOCKHOLDER APPROVAL. The Company Stockholder Approval shall have been
obtained at or prior to the Effective Time in accordance with the DGCL.

(b) NO INJUNCTION OR STATUTE. No statute, rule, regulation, order, decree,
judgment, injunction or ruling shall have been enacted, entered, promulgated or
enforced by any court or other Governmental Entity of competent jurisdiction
which, in any such case, (i) prohibits or restricts the ownership or operation
by Parent (or any of its Affiliates or Subsidiaries) of a material portion of
the Company s and its Subsidiaries  businesses or assets, or compels Parent (or
any of its Affiliates or Subsidiaries) to dispose of or hold separate any
material portion of the Company s and its Subsidiaries  businesses or assets, or
(ii) restrains in any material respect or prohibits the consummation of the
Merger, which has not been vacated, dismissed or withdrawn prior to the
Effective Time. The Company and Parent shall use their

42 

respective best efforts to have any of the foregoing vacated, dismissed or
withdrawn by the Effective Time.

(c) NO ACTION. No action, suit or proceeding shall have been instituted, or
shall be pending or threatened by a Governmental Entity (i) seeking to restrain
in any material respect or prohibit the consummation of the Merger or the
performance of any of the other Transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
(ii) seeking to obtain from the Company, Parent, PHH or Merger Sub any damages
that would result in a Material Adverse Effect or (iii) seeking to impose the
restrictions, prohibitions or limitations referred to in subsection (b) above.

(d) HSR ACT. Any waiting period applicable to the Merger under the HSR Act
and any applicable foreign competition or antitrust laws shall have been
terminated or expired.

6.2 CONDITIONS TO OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY TO EFFECT THE MERGER. The
obligation of the Company to effect the Merger shall be subject to the
fulfillment or waiver (to the extent permitted by applicable law) at or prior to
the Effective Time of the following conditions:

(a) The representations and warranties of Parent, PHH and Merger Sub set
forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all respects as of the
Effective Time as though made on or as of such time (ignoring for purposes of
this determination any materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualifiers
contained within individual representations and warranties), except for (i)
those representations and warranties that address matters only as of a
particular date or only with respect to a specific period of time which need
only be true and correct as of such date or with respect to such period and (ii)
such failures to be true and correct as would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to materially impair the ability of Parent,
PHH or Merger Sub to consummate the Merger.

(b) Parent, PHH and Merger Sub shall have performed and complied in all
material respects with all obligations, agreements and covenants required by
this Agreement to be performed and complied with by it prior to the Effective
Time.

(c) The Company shall have received a certificate signed by the chief
financial officer of Parent, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect that,
to the best of such officer s knowledge, the conditions set forth in Section
6.2(a) and Section 6.2(b) have been satisfied.

43 

6.3 CONDITIONS TO OBLIGATIONS OF PARENT AND MERGER SUB TO EFFECT THE
MERGER. The obligation of Parent, PHH and Merger Sub to effect the Merger shall
be subject to the fulfillment or waiver (to the extent permitted by applicable
law) at or prior to the Effective Time of the following conditions:

(a) The representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this
Agreement shall be true and correct in all respects as of the Effective Time as
though made on or as of such time (ignoring for purposes of this determination
any materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualifiers contained within
individual representations and warranties), except for (i) those representations
and warranties that address matters only as of a particular date or only with
respect to a specific period of time which need only be true and correct as of
such date or with respect to such period and (ii) such failures to be true and
correct as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected
to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

(b) The Company shall have performed and complied in all material respects
with all obligations, agreements and covenants required by this Agreement to be
performed or complied with by it prior to the Effective Time, except for such
failures to perform or comply as would not, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

(c) Parent shall have received a certificate signed by the chief financial
officer of the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect that, to the
best of such officer s knowledge, the conditions set forth in Section 6.3(a) and
Section 6.3(b) have been satisfied.

(d) Neither the Board nor the Independent Committee (i) shall have
withdrawn, modified or changed its approval or recommendation of this Agreement,
the Merger or the other Transactions in any manner which Parent reasonably
determines to be adverse to Parent, (ii) shall have recommended the approval or
acceptance of a Superior Proposal or Third-Party Acquisition from a Person or
entity other than a member of the Acquisition Group, or (iii) shall have
executed any Company Acquisition Agreement.

(e) No event, change, development or circumstance shall have occurred or
shall exist which is reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

(f) The Company shall have obtained the consents, approvals and waivers set
forth in Section 6.3(f) of the Company Disclosure Schedule.

44 

ARTICLE VII 
TERMINATION

7.1 TERMINATION. This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the
Effective Time, notwithstanding adoption of this Agreement by the stockholders
of the Company:

(a) by mutual written consent duly authorized by the Board of Directors of
each of the Company (provided such termination has been approved by the
Independent Committee) and Parent; or

(b) by either the Company (provided such termination has been approved by
the Independent Committee) or Parent as follows:

(i) if the Effective Time shall not have occurred on or prior to June
30, 2001; provided, however, that the right to terminate this Agreement under
this Section 7.1(b)(i) shall not be available to any party whose failure to
fulfill any obligation under this Agreement has been the cause of, or resulted
in, the failure of the Merger to be consummated on or prior to such date; or

(ii) if a Governmental Entity shall have issued a non appealable final
order, decree or ruling or taken any other nonappealable final action having the
effect of permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Merger
(which order, decree, ruling or other action the parties hereto shall have used
their best efforts to lift); or

(iii) if the Company Stockholder Approval shall not have been obtained
at the Stockholders Meeting; or

(c) by Parent, on behalf of itself, PHH and Merger Sub, as follows:

(i) upon a material breach of any covenant or agreement set forth in
this Agreement (a  Terminating Breach ) on the part of the Company; provided
that, if such Terminating Breach is curable on or prior to the earlier of (A) 60
days following notice of such Terminating Breach and (B) June 30, 2001 by the
Company through the exercise of its reasonable best efforts and for so long as
the Company continues to exercise such reasonable best efforts, Parent may not
terminate this Agreement under this Section 7.1(c)(i) until the earlier of (A)
60 days following notice of such Terminating Breach and (B) June 30, 2001; or

45 

(ii) (x) the Independent Committee or the Board shall (A) withdraw,
modify or change its approval or recommendation of this Agreement, the Merger or
the other Transactions in any manner which Parent reasonably determines to be
adverse to Parent; (B) approve or recommend to the stockholders of the Company a
Third-Party Acquisition or a Superior Proposal; (C) violate any of the
provisions of Section 5.2 hereof; (D) take any public position or make any
disclosures to the Company s stockholders which has the effect of any of the
foregoing; or (E) resolve to enter into a Company Acquisition Agreement relating
to a Third-Party Acquisition or a Superior Proposal; or (y) the Company shall
(A) execute a Company Acquisition Agreement relating to a Third-Party
Acquisition or a Superior Proposal (B) violate any of the provisions of Section
5.2 hereof; or

(iii) if any representation or warranty of the Company set forth in
this Agreement shall have become untrue or shall have been untrue when made, if
such failure to be true and correct, individually or in the aggregate, would
result in a Material Adverse Effect; provided that, if such failure is curable
on or prior to the earlier of (A) 60 days following notice of such Terminating
Breach and (B) June 30, 2001 by the Company through the exercise of its
reasonable best efforts and for so long as the Company continues to exercise
such reasonable best efforts, Parent may not terminate this Agreement under this
Section 7.1(c)(iii) until the earlier of (A) 60 days following notice of such
Terminating Breach and (B) June 30, 2001; or

(d) by the Company (provided such termination has been approved by the
Independent Committee) as follows:

(i) upon a Terminating Breach on the part of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub;
provided that, if such Terminating Breach is curable on or prior to the earlier
of (A) 60 days following notice of such Terminating Breach and (B) June 30, 2001
by Parent, PHH or Merger Sub through the exercise of its reasonable best efforts
and for so long as Parent, PHH and Merger Sub continue to exercise such
reasonable best efforts, the Company may not terminate this Agreement under this
Section 7.1(d)(i) until the earlier of (A) 60 days following notice of such
Terminating Breach and (B) June 30, 2001; or

(ii) if any representation or warranty of Parent, PHH or Merger Sub,
respectively, set forth in this Agreement shall have been untrue in any material
respect or shall have been untrue in any material respect when made; provided
that, if such failure is curable prior to the earlier of (A) 60 days following
notice of such Terminating Breach and (B) June 30, 2001 by Parent, PHH or Merger
Sub, as the case may be, through the exercise of its reasonable best efforts and
for so long as Parent, PHH or Merger Sub, as the case may be, continues to
exercise such

46 

reasonable best efforts, the Company may not terminate this Agreement under this
Section 7.1(d)(ii) until the earlier of (A) 60 days following notice of such
Terminating Breach and (B) June 30, 2001; or

(iii) if, following the Stockholders Meeting, (A) the Company
Stockholder Approval shall not have been obtained, (B) the Company concurrently
executes and delivers a definitive agreement with respect to a Superior Proposal
and (C) the Independent Committee determines in good faith, after receipt of
advice of its outside legal counsel, that a failure to terminate this Agreement
in order to enter into a definitive agreement with regard to such Superior
Proposal would constitute a breach of its fiduciary duties to the Company s
stockholders under applicable law; provided that, prior to such termination, (x)
the Company has given Parent three (3) Business Days  advance notice of the
Company s intention to accept such Superior Proposal and shall have complied in
all respects with the provisions of Section 2.6 and Section 5.2; and (y) the
Company shall have paid by wire transfer the Fee and the Parent Expenses
pursuant to Section 7.3(b).

7.2 EFFECT OF TERMINATION. In the event of the termination of this
Agreement pursuant to Section 7.1, written notice thereof shall forthwith be
given to the other party or parties specifying the provision hereof pursuant to
which such termination is made, and this Agreement shall forthwith become void
and there shall be no liability on the part of any party hereto or any of its
Affiliates, directors, officers, stockholders, representatives or agents except
for any obligation of the Company or Parent set forth in Article VII hereof, if
any. Notwithstanding the foregoing, or any other provision of this Agreement
(including Section 7.3), nothing herein shall relieve the Company, Parent, PHH
or Merger Sub from liability for any breach hereof.

7.3 FEES AND EXPENSES.

(a) Except as set forth in this Section 7.3, all fees and expenses incurred
in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions shall be paid by the
party incurring such expenses, whether or not the Merger is consummated.

(b) The Company shall pay, or cause to be paid, to Parent, the Parent
Expenses (as defined below) actually incurred and a fee of $28,000,000 (the
 Fee ) upon the first to occur of any of the following events:

(i) the termination of this Agreement by Parent or the Company pursuant
to subsection (b)(i) of Section 7.1, or the termination of this Agreement by
Parent pursuant to Subsection (c)(i) or (c)(iii) of Section 7.1; provided, that
prior to such termination, the Company becomes aware that any

47 

Person has made or intends to make a proposal relating to a Third-Party
Acquisition and, within twelve months following the date of such termination, a
Third-Party Acquisition is consummated or a definitive agreement with respect to
a Third-Party Acquisition is executed by the Company;

(ii) the termination of this Agreement by Parent pursuant to Section
7.1(c)(ii);

(iii) the termination of this Agreement by the Company pursuant to
Section 7.1(d)(iii); or

(iv) the termination of this Agreement by Parent pursuant to Section
7.1(b)(iii); provided, that a Third-Party Acquisition shall be publicly
announced or otherwise made known to the public at or prior to the Stockholders
Meeting and, within twelve months following the date of such termination, a
Third- Party Acquisition is consummated or a definitive agreement with respect
to a Third- Party Acquisition is executed by the Company.

(c)  Parent Expenses  means all out-of-pocket expenses and fees (including
fees and expenses payable to all banks, investment banking agents and counsel
for arranging, committing to provide or providing any financing for the
Transactions contemplated hereby or structuring the Transactions contemplated
hereby and all fees of counsel, accountants, experts and consultants to Parent,
PHH and Merger Sub and all printing and advertising expenses) actually incurred
or accrued by either of them or on their behalf in connection with the
Transactions, including the financing thereof, and actually incurred or accrued
by banks, investment banking firms, other financial institutions and other
Persons and incurred by Parent, PHH and Merger Sub in connection with the
negotiation, preparation, execution and performance of this Agreement, the
structuring and financing of the Transactions and any financing commitments or
agreements relating thereto; provided, however, that in no event shall the
amount of Parent Expenses exceed $2,500,000.

(d) The Fee and Parent Expenses shall be paid by wire transfer of same day
funds to an account designated by Parent within two Business Days after a demand
for payment following the first to occur of any of the events described in
Section 7.3(b); provided that, in the event of a termination of this Agreement
under Section 7.1(d)(iii), the Fee and Parent Expenses shall be paid as therein
provided as a condition to the effectiveness of such termination.

48 

(e) The agreements contained in this Section 7.3 are an integral part of
the Transactions and do not constitute a penalty. In the event of any dispute
between the Company and Parent as to whether the Fee and Parent Expenses under
this Section 7.3 are due and payable, the prevailing party shall be entitled to
receive from the other party the reasonable costs and expenses (including
reasonable legal fees and expenses) in connection with any action, including the
filing of any lawsuit or other legal action, relating to such dispute. Interest
shall be paid on the amount of any unpaid Fee or Parent Expenses at the publicly
announced prime rate of Citibank, N.A. from the date such Fee or Parent Expenses
was required to be paid.

ARTICLE VIII 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

8.1 NONSURVIVAL OF REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND AGREEMENTS. The
representations, warranties and agreements in this Agreement or in any
instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall not survive the Effective
Time of the Merger; provided, that the agreements contained in Article I,
Article II, Sections 5.5 and 5.6 and this Article VIII shall survive the
Effective Time.

8.2 NOTICES. Any notice required to be given hereunder shall be sufficient
if in writing, and sent by facsimile transmission (provided that any notice
received by facsimile transmission or otherwise at the addressee s location on
any Business Day after 5:00 p.m. (addressee s local time) shall be deemed to
have been received at 9:00 a.m. (addressee s local time) on the next Business
Day), by reliable overnight delivery service (with proof of service), hand
delivery or certified or registered mail (return receipt requested and
first-class postage prepaid), addressed as follows:

If to Parent, PHH or Merger Sub:

Cendant Corporation 
6 Sylvan Way 
Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 
Attention: General Counsel 
Telecopier No.: 973-496-5335

49 

with copies to:

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher   Flom LLP 
One Rodney Square 
Wilmington, Delaware 19801 
Attention: Patricia Moran Chuff, Esq. 
Telecopier No.: 302-651-3001

If to the Company:

Avis Group Holdings, Inc. 
World Headquarters 
900 Old Country Road 
Garden City, New York 11530 
Attention: General Counsel 
Telecopier No.: 516-222-6922

with copies to:

White   Case LLP 
1155 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10036 
Attention: John M. Reiss, Esq. 
Telecopier No.: 212-354-8113

and to the Special Committee at:

JER Partners 
1650 Tysons Blvd. 
Suite 1600 
McLean, VA 22102 
Attention: Deborah Harmon 
Telecopier: (703) 714-8124

with copies to:

Cahill Gordon   Reindel 
80 Pine Street 
New York, New York 10005-1702 
Attention: Richard E. Farley, Esq. 
Telecopier No.: 212-269-5420

50 

or to such other address as any party shall specify by written notice so given,
and such notice shall be deemed to have been delivered as of the date so
telecommunicated, personally delivered or mailed. Any party to this Agreement
may notify any other party of any changes to the address or any of the other
details specified in this paragraph; provided that such notification shall only
be effective on the date specified in such notice or five (5) Business Days
after the notice is given, whichever is later. Rejection or other refusal to
accept or the inability to deliver because of changed address of which no notice
was given shall be deemed to be receipt of the notice as of the date of such
rejection, refusal or inability to deliver.

8.3 ASSIGNMENT; BINDING EFFECT. Neither this Agreement nor any of the
rights, interests or obligations hereunder may be assigned by any of the parties
(whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of
the other parties, except that Merger Sub may assign any of its rights and
obligations hereunder to a wholly owned Subsidiary of Parent which is a Delaware
corporation; provided, however, that no such assignment shall relieve Merger Sub
of its obligations hereunder. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties and their
respective successors and permitted assigns. Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Agreement to the contrary, except for the provisions of Sections 5.5 and
5.6, nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer on
any Person other than the parties hereto or their respective heirs, successors,
executors, administrators and assigns any rights, remedies, obligations or
liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement.

8.4 ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement, the Company Disclosure Letter, the
Parent Disclosure Letter and any documents delivered by the parties in
connection herewith constitute the entire agreement among the parties with
respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all prior
representations, warranties, agreements and understandings among the parties,
both written and oral, with respect thereto, except the Confidentiality
Agreement which shall continue in full force and effect; provided that if there
is any conflict between the Confidentiality Agreement and this Agreement, this
Agreement shall prevail.

8.5 AMENDMENT. Subject to applicable law, this Agreement may be amended by
the parties hereto, by action taken by their respective boards of directors and,
with respect to the Company, by the Independent Committee, at any time before or
after the Company Stockholder Approval, but after any such Company Stockholder
Approval, no amendment shall be made which by law requires the further approval
of stockholders without obtaining such further approval. This Agreement may not
be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the
parties.

51 

8.6 GOVERNING LAW; CONSENT TO JURISDICTION.

(a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to the principles of conflicts
of laws thereof.

(b) Each of the parties hereto (i) consents to submit itself to the
exclusive personal jurisdiction of any Delaware state court or any federal court
located in the State of Delaware in the event any dispute arises out of this
Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (ii)
agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by
motion or other request for leave from any such court.

8.7 COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed by the parties in separate
counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original,
but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies of this Agreement each signed
by less than all, but together signed by all of the parties hereto. This
Agreement shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed
by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.

8.8 HEADINGS. Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Agreement are
for the convenience of the parties only, and shall be given no substantive or
interpretive effect whatsoever.

8.9 INTERPRETATION. When a reference is made in this Agreement to an
Article or Section, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of this
Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents to this Agreement is
for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words  include,   includes  or
 including  are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by
the words  without limitation.  The words  hereof,   herein  and  hereunder  and
words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this
Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All
terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any
certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant thereto unless
otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are
applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the
masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such term. Any
agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any
agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement
instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented,

52 

including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and
(in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes and
references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein.
References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns. Each of
the parties has participated in the drafting and negotiation of this Agreement.
If an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement
must be construed as if it is drafted by all the parties and no presumption or
burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of
authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement. The inclusion of any
matters in the Company Disclosure Letter or the Parent Disclosure Letter in
connection with any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement that is
qualified as to materiality or  Material Adverse Effect  shall not be an
admission by the Company that such matters is material or would have a Material
Adverse Effect.

8.10 WAIVERS. No action taken pursuant to this Agreement, including any
investigation by or on behalf of any party, shall be deemed to constitute a
waiver by the party taking such action of compliance with any representations,
warranties, covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement. Any term,
covenant or condition of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the party
which is entitled to the benefit thereof, but only by a written notice signed by
such party expressly waiving such term or condition. The waiver by any party
hereto of a breach of any provision hereunder shall not operate or be construed
as a waiver of any prior or subsequent breach of the same or any other provision
hereunder.

8.11 INCORPORATION OF ANNEX AND DISCLOSURE LETTERS. The Company Disclosure
Letter and the Parent Disclosure Letter are hereby incorporated in this
Agreement and made a part of this Agreement for all purposes as if fully set
forth in this Agreement.

8.12 SEVERABILITY. Any term or provision of this Agreement which is invalid
or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be
ineffective to the extent (and only to the extent) of such invalidity or
unenforceability without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remaining terms
and provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity or enforceability of
any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction. If
any provision of this Agreement is so broad as to be unenforceable, the
provision shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable. Upon such
determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable
of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify
this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as
possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated
hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent
possible.

53 

8.13 ENFORCEMENT OF AGREEMENT. The parties hereto agree that irreparable
damage would occur if any of the provisions of this Agreement was not performed
in accordance with its specific terms or as otherwise breached and that money
damages would not be an adequate remedy for any breach of this Agreement. It is
accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or
injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically
the terms and provisions of this Agreement in any court referred to in Section
8.6(b), this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at
law or in equity or pursuant to this Agreement. In any such action for specific
performance, each of the parties shall waive (i) the defense of adequacy of a
remedy at law and (ii) any requirement for the securing and posting of any bond.

8.14 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT WAIVES, TO THE
FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY
JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO
THIS AGREEMENT.

8.15 EXECUTION. This Agreement may be executed by facsimile signatures by
any party and such signature shall be deemed binding for all purposes hereof,
without delivery of an original signature being thereafter required.

8.16 DATE FOR ANY ACTION. In the event that any date on which any action is
required to be taken hereunder by any of the Parties hereto is not a Business
Day, such action shall be required to be taken on the next succeeding day which
is a Business Day.

8.17 PARTIES IN INTEREST. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure
solely to the benefit of each Party hereto, and nothing in this Agreement,
express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any
right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this
Agreement, other than Section 5.5 (which is intended to be for the benefit of
the Persons covered thereby and may be enforced by such Persons).

8.18 CERTAIN DEFINITIONS. As used in this Agreement:

(a) The term  Affiliate,  as applied to any Person, shall mean any other
Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with, that Person; for purposes of this definition,  control 
(including, with correlative meanings, the terms  controlling,   controlled by, 
 under common control with ), as applied to any Person, means the possession,
directly or indirectly,

54 

of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of
that Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or
otherwise.

(b) The term  Associate  has the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under the
Exchange Act.

(c) A Person shall be deemed to  beneficially  own securities if such
Person would be the beneficial owner of such securities under Rule 13d-3 under
the Exchange Act, including securities which such Person has the right to
acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage
of time).

(d) The term  Business Day  means any day on which commercial banks are
open for business in New York, New York other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day
observed as a holiday in New York, New York under the laws of the State of New
York or the federal laws of the United States.

(e) The term  Person  shall include individuals, corporations,
partnerships, trusts, limited liability companies, associations, unincorporated
organizations, joint ventures, other entities, groups (which term shall include
a  group  as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act),
labor unions or Governmental Entity.

(f) The term  Subsidiary,  when used with respect to any party, means any
corporation or other organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated, of
which such party directly or indirectly owns or controls at least a majority of
the securities or other interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to
elect a majority of the board of directors or others performing similar
functions with respect to such corporation or other organization, or any
organization of which such party is a general partner.

SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS 

55 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement and caused the
same to be duly delivered on their behalf on the day and year first written
above.

CENDANT CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Henry R. Silverman

Name:   
     Henry R. Silverman  

Title:   
     Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer  

PHH CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ James E. Buckman

Name:   
     James E. Buckman  

Title:   
     Executive Vice President 
and General Counsel  

AVIS ACQUISITION CORP. 

By:   
     /s/ James E. Buckman

Name:   
     James E. Buckman  

Title:   
     Executive Vice President 
and General Counsel  

AVIS GROUP HOLDINGS, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Kevin M. Sheehan

Name:   
     Kevin M. Sheehan  

Title:   
     President, Corporate and Business 
Affairs, Chief Financial Officer  

DEFINED TERMS 

i 

ii 

iii 

</EX-2.1>

<EX-4.3>
 3
 y26027exv4w3.htm
 EX-4.3: INDENTURE

EX-4.3 

EXHIBIT 4.3 

PHH CORPORATION

and

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

TRUSTEE

INDENTURE

DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 6, 2000

SENIOR DEBT SECURITIES

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PAGE 

ARTICLE ONE  

DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS  

OF GENERAL APPLICATION  

SECTION 101. Definitions

1 

Act

2 

Affiliate

2 

Authenticating Agent

2 

Beneficial Owner

2 

Board of Directors

2 

Board Resolution

2 

Business Day

2 

Commission

2 

Company

2 

Company
Request  or  Company Order 

3 

Corporate Trust Office

3 

Corporation

3 

Defaulted Interest

3 

Depositary

3 

Dollar

3 

ECU

3 

Event of Default

3 

Fixed Rate Security

3 

Floating Rate Security

3 

Foreign Currency

3 

Global Security

3 

Holder

4 

Indenture

4 

Interest

4 

Interest Payment Date

4 

Market Exchange Rate

4 

Maturity

4 

Officers  Certificate

4 

Opinion of Counsel

4 

Original Issue Discount Security

4 

Outstanding

4 

Paying Agent

5 

Person

5 

Place of Payment

5 

Predecessor Security

5 

Property

6 

Redemption Date

6 

Redemption Price

6 

INDENTURE, dated as of November 6, 2000, between PHH Corporation, a
corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Maryland (herein called the  Company ), and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., a
national banking association duly incorporated and existing under the laws
of the United States of America, Trustee (herein called the  Trustee ).

RECITALS OF THE COMPANY

The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to
provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured and unsubordinated debentures, notes or
other evidences of senior indebtedness (herein called the  Securities ), to be issued in one or
more series as in this Indenture provided.

All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance
with its terms, have been done.

NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:

For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the securities by the Holders
thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all
holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:

ARTICLE ONE

DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS 
OF GENERAL APPLICATION

SECTION 101. Definitions.

For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the
context otherwise requires:

(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and
include the plural as well as the singular;

(2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly
or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;

(3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, except as otherwise herein expressly
provided, the term  generally accepted accounting principles  with respect to any computation
required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at
the date of such computation; and

(4) the words  herein,   hereof  and  hereunder  and other words of similar import refer to
this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.

Certain terms, used principally in Article Eight, are defined in that Article.

Act,  when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.

Affiliate  of any specified person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling
or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the
purposes of this definition,  control  when used with respect to any specified Person means the
power to direct the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through
the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms  controlling  and
 controlled  have meanings correlative to the foregoing.

Authenticating Agent  means any Person authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the
Trustee to authenticate and deliver Securities.

Beneficial Owner  means, with respect to Global Securities, the Person who is the beneficial
owner of such Securities as effected on the books of the Depositary for such Securities or on the
books of a Person maintaining an account with such Depositary (directly or as an indirect
participant, in accordance with the rules of such Depositary).

Board of Directors  means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized
committee of that board.

Board Resolution  means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant
Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full
force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.

Business Day,  when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of
Payment, and (i) with respect to Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency, the capital city of
the country of the Foreign Currency, or (ii) with respect to Securities denominated in ECU,
Brussels, are authorized or obligated by it to close.

Commission  means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted,
created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or, if at any time after the execution of this
instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the
Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.

Company  means the Person named as the  Company  in the first paragraph of this Indenture
until a successor corporation shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this
Indenture, and thereafter  Company  shall mean such successor corporation.

Company Request  or  Company Order  means a written request or order signed in the name of
the Company by its Chairman, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant
Treasurer, its Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and
delivered to the Trustee.

Corporate Trust Office  means the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee at which at
any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered. At the date of this
Indenture, the Corporate
Trust Office of the Trustee is located at 1 Bank One Plaza, Suite IL1-0126, Chicago, Illinois
60670-0126.

Corporation  includes corporations, associations, companies and business trusts.

Defaulted Interest  has the meaning specified in Section 307.

Depositary  means a clearing agency registered as such under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, or any successor thereto, which shall in either case be designated by the Company
pursuant to Section 301 until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the
applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter  Depositary  shall mean or include each
Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person,
 Depositary  as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Depositary with
respect to the Securities of that series.

Dollar  means the coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment
is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

ECU  means the European Currency Unit as defined from time to time by the Council of European
Communities.

Event of Default  has the meaning specified in Section 501.

Fixed Rate Security  means a Security which provides for the payment of interest at a fixed
rate.

Floating Rate Security  means a Security which provides for the payment of interest at a
variable rate determined periodically by reference to an interest rate index or other index
specified pursuant to Section 301.

Foreign Currency  means a currency issued by the government of a country other than the
United States.

Global Security  means a Security evidencing all or part of a series of Securities which is
executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered to the Depositary or pursuant to the
Depositary s instructions, all in accordance with this Indenture and pursuant to a Company Order,
which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent
the amount of uncertificated securities as specified therein.

Holder  means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.

Indenture  means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be
supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the
applicable provisions hereof and shall include any Officers  Certificates setting forth the form
and terms of particular series of Securities as contemplated by Sections 201 and 301.

Interest,  when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms
bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.

Interest Payment Date,  when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of
an installment of interest on such Security.

Lien  means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or encumbrance.

Market Exchange Rate  means on a given date, the noon buying rate in New York City for cable
transfers for the stated Foreign Currency as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York on such date; provided that, in the case of the ECU, Market Exchange Rate shall
mean the rate of exchange determined by the Council of European Communities (or any successor
thereto) as published for such date in the Official Journal of the European Communities or any
successor publication.

Maturity,  when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of
such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided,
whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.

Officers  Certificate  means a certificate signed by the Chairman, the President, a Vice
President or the Treasurer, and by an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller,
the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.

Opinion of Counsel  means a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel
for the Company or the Trustee, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee, which opinion is
delivered to the Trustee.

Original Issue Discount Security  means any Security which provides for an amount less than
the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the
Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.

Outstanding,  when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination,
all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:

(i) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for
cancellation;

(ii) Securities or portions thereof for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary
amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company)
in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own
Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities or portions
thereof are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this
Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and

(iii) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of
which other
Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such
Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to
it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid
obligations of the Company; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the
requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization,
direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other
obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be
disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall
be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or
waiver, only Securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities
so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee
establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee s right so to act with respect to such
Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any
Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor. In determining the requisite principal amount of
any Original Issue Discount Security, such principal amount that shall be deemed to be Outstanding
shall be equal to the amount of the principal thereof that could be declared to be due and payable
upon an Event of Default pursuant to the terms of such Original Issue Discount Security at the time
of such determination.

Paying Agent  means any person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (and
premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security on behalf of the Company.

Person  means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association,
joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political
subdivision thereof.

Place of Payment,  when used with respect to the Securities of any

series, means the place or
places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of that
series are payable as specified as contemplated in Section 301 or, if not so specified, as
specified in Section 1002.

Predecessor Security  of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all
or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes
of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in lieu of a
mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the
mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.

Property  means any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, tangible or
intangible.

Redemption Date,  when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed
for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.

Redemption Price,  when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at
which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.

Regular Record Date  for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities
of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.

Responsible Officer,  when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee
assigned to administer corporate trust matters and also means, with respect to a particular
corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his or her
knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.

Securities  has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more
particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.

Security Register  and  Security Registrar  have the respective meanings specified in Section
305

Special Record Date  for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the
Trustee pursuant to Section 307.

Stated Maturity,  when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal
thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which
the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.

Subsidiary  means with respect to any Person, any corporation, association, joint venture,
partnership, limited liability company or other business entity of which at least a majority of the
voting stock or other ownership interests having voting power for the election of directors (or the
equivalent) is, at the time as of which any determination is being made, owned or controlled by
such Person or one or more subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more
subsidiaries of such Person.

Trustee  means the Person named as the  Trustee  in the first paragraph of this instrument
until a successor trustee shall have become such with respect to one or more series of Securities
pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter  Trustee  shall mean or
include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, provided, however, that if at any time there
is more than one such person,  Trustee  as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall
mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.

Trust Indenture Act  means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of
which this instrument was executed, except as provided in Section 905.

Vice President,  when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice
president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title
 vice president. 

SECTION 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions.

Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any
provision of
this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate stating that all
conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have
been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such
conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such
application or

request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any
provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional
certificate or opinion need be furnished.

Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided
for in this Indenture shall include:

(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such
condition or covenant and the definitions herein relating thereto;

(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon
which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;

(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or
investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not
such condition or covenant has been complied with; and

(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or
covenant has been complied with.

SECTION 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.

In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion
of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by
the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document,
but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more
other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to
such matters in one or several documents.

Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to
legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such
officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion
or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are
erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to
factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of
the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession
of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that
the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.

Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests,
consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may,
but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.

SECTION 104. Acts of Holders.

(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action
provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders (or Holders of any series) may be
embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such
Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly
provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to
the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or
instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred
to as the  Act  of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments, proof of execution of any
such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of
this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company and
any agent of the Trustee or the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.

(b) The fact and date of the execution by any person of any such instrument or writing may be
proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or
other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual
signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution
is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or
affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the
execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the person executing the same, may
also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient; and the Trustee may in any
instance require further proof with respect to any of the matters referred to in this Section.

(c) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.

(d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization,
direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by Board
Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such
request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company
shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand,
authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such
record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be
deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of
Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand,
authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the
Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date, provided that no such
authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective
unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provision of this Indenture not later than six
months after the record date.

(e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the
Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every
Security issued upon
the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of
anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee, the Security Registrar, any Paying
Agent or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such
Security.

SECTION 105. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.

Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, any request, demand, authorization,
direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by
this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,

(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose
hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate
Trust Office, or

(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose
hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class
postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to the attention of its Treasurer at PHH Corporation, 6
Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 or any other address subsequently furnished in writing to
the Trustee by the Company.

SECTION 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver.

Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be
sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed,
first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in
the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date,
prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail,
neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular
Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Any notice mailed
in the manner prescribed by this Indenture shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given
whether or not received by any particular Holder. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any
manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either
before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of
notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition
precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.

In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it
shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with
the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.

SECTION 107. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.

If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is
required to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such
required provision shall control.

SECTION 108. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.

The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and
shall not affect the construction hereof.

SECTION 109. Successors and Assigns.

All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and
assigns, whether so expressed or not.

SECTION 110. Separability Clause.

In case any provision of this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in
any way be affected or impaired thereby.

SECTION 111. Benefits of Indenture.

Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person,
other than the parties hereto, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar, or any Authenticating
Agent and their respective successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or
equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.

SECTION 112. Governing Law.

This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed and construed by and in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 113. Legal Holidays.

In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, the Stated Maturity of any
Security or any date upon which any Defaulted Interest is proposed to be paid shall not be a
Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture
or of the Securities) payment of interest, if any, or principal (and premium, if any) need not be
made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at
such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date,
Redemption Date, at the Stated Maturity, or on the date for payment of Defaulted Interest, provided
that no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption
Date, Stated Maturity or date for the payment of Defaulted Interest, as the case may be.

SECTION 114. Indenture and Securities Solely Corporate Obligations.

No recourse for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any
Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or
upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture or in any supplemental
indenture, or in any Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby,
shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or
future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or
any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the
enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such
liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for,
the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Securities.

SECTION 115. Consent of Holders of Securities in a Foreign Currency or ECU.

Unless otherwise specified in a certificate delivered pursuant to Section 301 of this
Indenture with respect to a particular series of Securities, whenever for purposes of this
Indenture any action may be taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal
amount of Securities of all series or all series affected by a particular action at the time
Outstanding and, at such time, there are Outstanding Securities of any series which are denominated
in a coin, currency or currency unit other than Dollars, then the principal amount of Securities of
such series which shall be deemed to be Outstanding for the purpose of taking such action shall be
that amount of Dollars that could be obtained for the stated Foreign Currency or ECU principal
amount of such Outstanding Securities at the Market Exchange Rate on the record date for the
purpose of taking such action. If the appropriate Market Exchange Rate is not available for any
reason with respect to the stated currency or currency unit, the Trustee shall use, in its sole
discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York or, in the case of ECU, the rate of exchange as published in The Wall Street Journal, as of
the most recent available date, or quotations or, in the case of ECUs, rates of

exchange from one
or more major banks in The City of New York or in the country of issue of the currency in question
which for purposes of the ECU shall be Brussels, Belgium, or such other quotations or, in the case
of ECU, rates of exchange as the Trustee shall deem appropriate. All decisions and determinations
of the Trustee regarding the Market Exchange Rate or any alternative determination provided for in
the preceding paragraph shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest
error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company and all Holders.

SECTION 116. Payment Currency.

If the principal of and/or interest on (or premium, if any, on) any Securities is payable in a
Foreign Currency or ECU and such Foreign Currency or ECU is not available for payment due to the
imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, then the
Company shall be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders under this Indenture by making such
payment in Dollars on the basis of the Market Exchange Rate for such Foreign Currency or ECU on the
latest date for which such rate was established on or before the date on which payment is due. Any
payment made under this Section 116 in Dollars where the required payment is in a Foreign Currency
or ECU shall not constitute an Event of Default.

SECTION 117. Officers  Certificate Regarding Withholding Obligations.

At least 15 days prior to the first Interest Payment Date and at least 15 days prior to each
date of payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest thereafter if there has been any change
with respect to the matters set forth in the below-mentioned certificate, the Company will furnish
the Trustee and each Paying Agent with an Officers  Certificate instructing the Trustee and each
Paying Agent whether such payment of principal of and premium, if any, or interest on the
Securities shall be made without deduction or withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment
or other governmental charge imposed upon or as a result of such payment. If any such deduction or
withholding shall be required, then such certificate shall specify, by country, the amount, if any,
required to be withheld on such payment to Holders of Securities and the Trustee will cause such
amounts to be withheld. The Company agrees to indemnify the Trustee and each Paying Agent for, and
to hold them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without
negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted
by them in reliance on any certificate furnished pursuant to this Section.

In furnishing this Officers  Certificate, the Company shall be entitled to rely on advice of
counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee and the Paying Agent and on information furnished in
writing to the Company and any agent or underwriter concerning the residences of the Holders of the
Securities, but such reliance shall not impair the indemnification set forth in the foregoing
paragraph.

ARTICLE TWO

SECURITY FORMS

SECTION 201. Forms Generally.

The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form as shall be established by or
pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with
such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or
permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification
and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any
securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such
Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any
series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, an appropriate Officers 
Certificate setting forth such form together with a copy of the Board Resolution shall be delivered
to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the
authentication and delivery of such Securities.

The definitive Securities shall be printed, typed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any
combination of these methods or may be produced in any other manner permitted by the rules of any
securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, all as determined by the officers
executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.

SECTION 202. Form of Trustee s Certificate of Authentication.

The Trustee s certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the form set forth
below:

This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein issued under the
within-mentioned Indenture.

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee 

By   

Authorized Officer  

ARTICLE THREE

THE SECURITIES

SECTION 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.

The aggregate principal amount of securities which may be authenticated and delivered under
this Indenture is unlimited.

The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant
to a procedure established in a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers  Certificate, or
established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of
any series:

(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the
series from the Securities of all other series);

(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be
authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered
upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series
pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107);

(3) the date or dates on which the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Securities of
the series is payable, or the manner in which such dates are determined;

(4) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or
the manner in which such rates are determined, the date or dates from which any such interest shall
accrue, or the manner in which such dates are determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which any
such interest shall be payable, the Regular Record Dates, if any, for the payment of interest on
any Interest Payment Date and the rate or rates of interest, if any, payable on overdue
installments of interest on or principal of (or premium, if any, on) the Securities of the series,
and whether the interest rate may be reset upon certain designated events and, in the case of
Floating Rate Securities, the notice, if any, to Holders regarding the determination of interest
and the manner of giving such notice, and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest
payable on any Global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner
provided in Section 307;

(5) if other than the Trustee, the identity of the Security Registrar and, if other than as
specified in Section 1002, the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable, provided, however, that, at the
option of the Company, any interest on the Securities of any series may be paid by check mailed to
the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register;

(6) if the Securities of such series are redeemable, the period or periods within which, the
price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be
redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;

(7) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series
pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the
period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon
which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to
such obligation;

(8) if other than denominations of $5,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations
in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;

(9) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of
Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity
thereof pursuant to Section 502;

(10) additional covenants of the Company, if any, for the benefit of the Holders of Securities
of such series and additional Events of Default, if any, with respect to Securities of such series;

(11) if the provisions of Section 401(4) relating to satisfaction and discharge of Securities
more than one year prior to their Stated Maturity or redemption shall apply to Securities of the
series, a statement of such fact;

(12) if other than Dollars, the coin or currency in which the Securities of that series are
denominated (including, but not limited to any Foreign Currency or ECU);

(13) if the amount of payments of principal (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the
Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, the manner in which such
amounts shall be determined;

(14) provisions, if any, for the defeasance of Securities of the series;

(15) the date as of which any Global Security representing any Outstanding Debt Securities of
the series shall be dated if other than the date of original issuance of the first Security of the series to
be issued;

(16) whether the Securities of the series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of
one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the Depositary for such Global Security or
Securities; and

(17) any other terms, conditions, rights and preferences (or limitations on such rights and
preferences) relating to the Securities of such series.

All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination
and the rate or rates of interest, if any, the date or dates from which interest shall accrue and
maturity and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution and set
forth in such Officers  Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.

If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board
Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or
an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of
the Officers  Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.

SECTION 302. Denominations.

The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in such
denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. In the absence of any such
provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be
issuable in denominations of $5,000 and any integral multiple thereof.

SECTION 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.

The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any two of its Chairman of the
Board, its President, any Vice President, its Treasurer or its Secretary, under its corporate seal
reproduced thereon. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or
facsimile.

Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the
proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any
of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such
Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.

At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the
Company may deliver to the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent for authentication Securities of any
series executed by the Company, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery
of such Securities, and the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent in accordance with the Company
Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If all the Securities of any series are not
to be issued at one time, and if the Board Resolution, Officers  Certificate or supplemental
indenture establishing such series shall so permit, such Company Order may set forth procedures
acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Securities and the determination of the terms of
particular Securities of such series such as interest rate, maturity date, date of issuance and
date from which interest shall accrue. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series

have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and
301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this
Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to Section 601)
shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,

(a) if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as
permitted by Section 201, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of
this Indenture; and

(b) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution
as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the
provisions of this Indenture.

If all the Securities of any series are not to be issued at one time, it shall not be
necessary to deliver an Opinion of Counsel at the time of issuance of each Security, but such
Opinion of Counsel, with appropriate modifications, may instead be delivered at or prior to the
time of issuance of the first Security of such series.

The Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall have the right to authenticate and deliver any
of such Securities if it, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not lawfully be
taken, or if it, its board of directors, trustees, executive committee, or a trust committee of
directors or trustees and/or vice presidents shall determine in good faith that such action would
expose it to personal liability to existing Holders or if the issue of such Securities pursuant to
this Indenture will affect the Trustee s own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and
this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.

Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.

No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory
for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially
in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent by manual
signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only
evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to
the benefits of this Indenture.

SECTION 304. Temporary Securities.

Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and
upon Company Order the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, temporary
Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any
authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which
they are issued and with such
appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing
such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.

Nominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects
be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.

SECTION 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.

With respect to each series of Securities, the Company shall cause to be kept at one of the
offices or agencies maintained pursuant to Section 1002 a register (the register maintained in such
office and in any other office or agency established by the Company in a Place of Payment being
herein sometimes collectively referred to as the  Security Register ) in which, subject to such
reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of
Securities of that series and of transfers of Securities of that series. Pursuant to Section 301,
the Company shall appoint, with respect to Securities of each series, a  Security Registrar  for
the purpose of registering such Securities and transfers and exchanges of such Securities as herein
provided. In the event the Trustee shall not be Security Registrar, it shall have the right to
examine the Security Register at all reasonable times.

Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the designated
office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee
or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee
or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and
of a like tenor, aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity.

At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series (except Global Securities) may be
exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like
tenor, aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity, upon surrender of the Securities to be
exchanged at such office or agency and upon payment, if the Company shall so require, of the
charges hereinafter provided. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company
shall execute, and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, the
Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.

All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the
valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under
this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.

Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall (if so
required by the Company or the Trustee or the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be
accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the
Security Registrar (and, if so required by the Trustee, to the Trustee) duly executed, by the
Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.

No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities,
but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of
Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906 or 1107 not involving any transfer.

The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange
Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the
day of selection for redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption under Section
1103 and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing of notice of redemption, or (ii)
to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in
part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.

SECTION 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.

If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) a mutilated Security or
evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such
security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of
them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has
been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its request the Trustee
or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for or in lieu of any such
mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor,
principal amount and Stated Maturity and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.

In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to
become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay
such Security.

Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment
of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation
thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected
therewith.

Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed,
lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the
Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by
anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately
with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.

The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all
other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost
or stolen Securities.

SECTION 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.

Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the
provisions of Section 301, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or
duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that
Security (or one or more Predecessor
Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.

Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or
duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called  Defaulted Interest ) shall
forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by
virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its
election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:

(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the persons in whose
names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at
the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which
shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the
amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of
the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of
money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or
shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the
proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons
entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a
Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days
and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after
the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify
the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall
cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date
therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at
his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than l0 days prior to such Special
Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date
therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names
the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the
close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the
following Clause (2).

(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in
any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which
such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after
notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such
manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.

Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this
Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security
shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such
other Security.

SECTION 308. Persons Deemed Owners.

Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee,
any Paying Agent, any Authenticating Agent and any other agent of the Company or the Trustee may
treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the
purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 307)
interest, if any, on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such
Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Authenticating
Agent nor any other agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the
contrary.

SECTION 309. Cancellation.

All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or
for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any person other than the
Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any
time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered
hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so
delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu
of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly
permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities shall be destroyed by the Trustee and the
Trustee shall deliver a certificate of such destruction to the Company, unless the Company by
Company Order shall direct that such cancelled Securities be returned to it.

SECTION 310. Computation of Interest.

Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series,
interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.

SECTION 311. Global Securities.

If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 301 that the Securities of a series are to
be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, then the Company shall
execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 303 and the Company Order with respect to
such series, authenticate and deliver one or more Global Securities in temporary or permanent form
that (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal
amount of the outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by one or more Global
Securities, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or
Securities or the nominee of such depositary, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such
depositary or pursuant to such depositary s instruction, and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially
to the following effect:  Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in
definitive form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a
nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of
the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor depositary or a nominee of
such successor Depositary.  The Trustee shall deal with the Depositary and its participants as
representatives of the Beneficial Owners of the Global Securities for purposes of exercising the
rights of the Holders hereunder and the rights of the Beneficial Owners of the Global Securities
shall be limited to those established by law and agreements between such Beneficial Owners and the
Depositary and its participants. Beneficial Owners shall not be entitled to certificates for Global
Securities
as to which they are the Beneficial Owners. Requests and directions from, and votes of, such
representatives shall not be deemed to be inconsistent if they are made with respect to different
Beneficial Owners.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section or Section 305, unless and until it is
exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive form, a Global Security representing all
or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the
Depositary for such series to a nominee of such depositary or by a nominee of such depositary to
such depositary or another nominee of such depositary or by such depositary or any such nominee to
a successor Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor depositary. The Beneficial
Owner s ownership of Securities shall be recorded on the records of a participant of the Depositary
that maintains such Beneficial Owner s account for such purpose and the participant s record
ownership of such Securities shall be recorded on the records of the Depositary.

If at any time the Depositary for the Securities of a series notifies the Company that it is
unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Securities of such series or if at any time
the Depositary for Securities of a series shall no longer be registered or in good standing under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, the
Company shall appoint a successor Depositary with respect to the Securities of such series. If a
successor Depositary for the Securities of such series is not appointed by the Company within 90
days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, the Company will
execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of
definitive Securities of such series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in
definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global
Security or Securities representing such series in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.

The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Securities of any
series issued in the form of one or more Global Securities shall no longer be represented by such
Global Security or Securities. In such event, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon
receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such
series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in definitive form and in an
aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security or Securities
representing such series in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.

If specified by the Company pursuant to Section 301 with respect to Securities of a series,
the Depositary for such series of Securities may surrender a Global Security for such series of
Securities in exchange in whole or in part for Securities of such series in definitive form on such
terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary. Thereupon, the Company shall execute
and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, without charge,

(i) to each Person specified by the Depositary a new Security or Securities of the same
series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Person in aggregate principal amount
equal to and in exchange for such Person s beneficial interest in the Global Security; and

(ii) to the Depositary a new Global Security in a denomination equal to the difference, if
any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Global Security and the aggregate principal
amount of Securities delivered to Holders thereof.

Upon the exchange of a Global Security for Securities in definitive form, such Global Security
shall be cancelled by the Trustee. Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security pursuant to
this Section 311 shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the
Depositary for such Global Security, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect
participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to
the persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.

ARTICLE FOUR

SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE

SECTION 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Securities of any Series.

The Company shall be deemed to have satisfied and discharged the entire indebtedness on all
the Securities of any particular series and the Trustee, upon Company request and at the expense of
the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of such
indebtedness, when

(1) either:

(A) all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i)
Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as
provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited
in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or
discharged from such trust, as provided in the last paragraph of Section 1003) have been delivered
to the Trustee for cancellation; or

(B) with respect to all Outstanding Securities of such series described in (A) above not
theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation,

(i) The Company has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in
trust an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all such Outstanding
Securities of such series for principal (and premium, if any) and interest to the Stated Maturity
or any Redemption Date as contemplated by Section 403, as the case may be; or

(ii) The Company has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as obligations in
trust such amount of direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which
are fully guaranteed by, the United States of America (other than obligations subject to
prepayment, redemption or call prior to their stated maturity) as will, together with the
predetermined and certain income to accrue thereon (without consideration of any reinvestment
thereof), be sufficient to pay and discharge when due the entire indebtedness on all such
Outstanding Securities of such series for principal (and premium, if any) and interest to the
Stated Maturity or any Redemption Date as contemplated by Section 403, as the case may be;

(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable with respect to the
Securities of such series;

(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate and an Opinion of
Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the
satisfaction and discharge of the entire indebtedness on all Securities of such series have been
complied with; and

(4) if the entire indebtedness on the Outstanding Securities of such series is to be satisfied
and discharged pursuant to Section 401(l)(B) above, then (i) the Company shall have specified the
applicability (as provided in Section 301) of this Section 401(4) to the Securities of such series,
(ii) the Company shall have given, not later than the date of such deposit, notice of such deposit
to the Holders of Securities of such series and (iii) the Trustee shall have received an Opinion of
Counsel (which Counsel shall be recognized tax counsel) stating that, (x) the Company has

received from the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (y) since the date of the Indenture, there has been a
change in the applicable federal income tax law, including by means of a Revenue Ruling published
by the Internal Revenue Service, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion
of Counsel will confirm that the deposit of funds or obligations and the satisfaction and discharge
of indebtedness on the Securities of such series pursuant to this Section 401 will not result in
recognition by the Holders of income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes (other than
income, gain or loss which would have been recognized in like amount and at a like time absent such
deposit, satisfaction and discharge), provided that the Company will be discharged from the
requirements of Article 8 if (i) it has satisfied all of the requirements for satisfaction and
discharge of the indebtedness on the Outstanding Securities pursuant to Section 401(1)(B) except
for the delivery of the Opinion of Counsel described above, and (ii) the Trustee shall have
received an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Holders will not recognize income, gain or loss for
federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit of such funds or obligations and will be
subject to federal tax in the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have
been the case if such deposit of funds or obligations had not occurred.

Upon the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Section 401 with respect to all the
Securities of any series, the terms and conditions of such series, including the terms and
conditions with respect thereto set forth in this Indenture, shall no longer be binding upon, or
applicable to, the Company, and the Holders of the Securities of such series shall look for payment
only to the funds or obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401(l)(B);
provided, however, that, in no event shall the Company be discharged (a) from any payment
obligations in respect of Securities of such series which are deemed not to be Outstanding under
clause (iii) of the definition thereof if such obligations continue to be valid obligations of the
Company under applicable law, (b) from any obligations under Section 607 or the last paragraph of
Section 1003, and (c) from any obligations under Section 305 and 306 (except that Securities of
such series issued upon registration of transfer or exchange or in lieu of mutilated, lost,
destroyed or stolen Securities shall not be obligations of the Company), and Section 701.

SECTION 402. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.

Upon compliance by the Company with the provisions of Section 401 as to the satisfaction and
discharge of each series of Securities issued hereunder, this Indenture shall cease to be of any
further effect (except as otherwise provided herein). Upon Company Request (and at the expense of
the Company), the Trustee shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge
of this Indenture. In the event there are two or more Trustees hereunder, then the effectiveness of
any such instrument shall be conditioned upon receipt of such instruments from all Trustees
hereunder.

Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, any obligations of the
Company under Sections 305, 306, 607 and 701 and the last paragraph of Section 1003, and of the
Trustee under Sections 403 and 614 and the last two paragraphs of Section 1003, shall survive.

SECTION 403. Application of Trust Money.

Subject to the provisions of the last two paragraphs of Section 1003, all money and
obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held irrevocably in trust
and shall be made under the terms of an escrow trust agreement in form and substance satisfactory
to the Trustee. Such money and obligations shall be applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the
provisions of the Securities, this Indenture and such escrow trust agreement, to the payment,
either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent)
as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal of (and premium, if
any) and interest, if any, on the Securities for the payment of which such money and obligations
have been deposited with the Trustee (but such money need not be segregated from other funds except
to the extent required by law). If Securities of any series are to be redeemed prior to their
Stated Maturity, whether pursuant to any optional redemption provisions or in accordance with any
mandatory sinking fund requirement, the Company shall make such arrangements as are satisfactory to
the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense,
of the Company.

ARTICLE FIVE

REMEDIES

SECTION 501. Events of Default.

Event of Default,  wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any
one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be
voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or
order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):

(1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes
due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or

(2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that
series at its Maturity; or

(3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a
Security of that series; or

(4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company in this
Indenture (other than a covenant or agreement a default in whose performance or whose breach is
elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this
Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and continuance
of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or
certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of
at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice
specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a
 Notice of Default  hereunder; or

(5) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:

(A) commences a voluntary case,

(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,

(C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its
property, or

(D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or

(6) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:

(A) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case;

(B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or for all or substantially all of its property, or

(C) orders the liquidation of the Company, and the order or decree remains unstayed and in
effect for 60 days.

The term  Bankruptcy Law  means Title 11 of the U.S. Code or any similar Federal or State law
for the relief of debtors. The term  Custodian  means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator
or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.

(7) any other Event of Default provided with respect to the Securities of that series pursuant
to Section 301 or in a supplemental indenture.

SECTION 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.

If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs
and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in
principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or,
if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the
principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of that
series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee
if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified portion)
shall become immediately due and payable.

Upon payment of such amount, all obligations of the Company in respect of the payment of
principal of the Securities of such series shall terminate.

At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series
has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the
Trustee as hereinafter in

this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may
rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:

(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay

(A) all overdue interest, if any, on all Securities of that series,

(B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become
due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates
prescribed therefor in such Securities,

(C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at
the rate or rates, if any, prescribed therefor in such Securities, and

(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation,
expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and

(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the
non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such
declaration of acceleration, have been cured, or waived as provided in Section 513.

No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.

SECTION 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.

The Company covenants that if:

(1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security of any series when such
interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or

(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security
of any series at the Maturity thereof, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for
the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series, the whole amount then due and payable on
Securities of such series for principal (and premium, if any) and interest and, to the extent that
payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal (and
premium, if any) and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates, if any, prescribed therefor in
such Securities; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the
costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements
and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.

If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own
name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of
the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may
enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the
moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the
Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.

If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the
Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the
Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall
deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of
any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein,
or to enforce any other proper remedy.

SECTION 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.

In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy,
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the
Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other
obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities
shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration of acceleration or otherwise
and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment
of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such
proceeding or otherwise,

(i) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (or with respect to Original
Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of
such Securities), and premium, if any and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities
and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the
claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements
and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial
proceeding, and

(ii) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such
claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator,
sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each
Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the
making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the
reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and
counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607. Nothing herein contained shall be
deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any
Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities
or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of
any Holder in any such proceeding.

SECTION 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.

All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and
enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof
in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be
brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after
provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of
the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in
respect of which such judgment has been recovered.

SECTION 506. Application of Money Collected.

Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following
order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on
account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the
notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:

FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;

SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of (and premium, if
any) and interest, if any, on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such
money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the
amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if
any, respectively; and

THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto.

SECTION 507. Limitation on Suits.

No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding,
judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or
trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless

(1) An Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Securities
of that series and such Holder shall have previously given written notice thereof to the Trustee;

(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that
series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such
Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;

(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs,
expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;

(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity
has failed to institute any such proceeding; and

(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during
such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities
of that series; it being

understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any
right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to
affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holder or to obtain or to seek to obtain
priority or preference over any other Holder or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except
in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all Holders of Securities of
such series.

SECTION 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.

Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have
the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and
premium, if any) and (subject to Section 307) interest, if any, on such Security on the Stated
Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption
Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be
impaired without the consent of such Holder.

SECTION 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.

If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy
under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has
been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to
any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored
severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and
remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been
instituted.

SECTION 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.

Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated,
destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy
herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of
any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter
existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy
hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other
appropriate right or remedy.

SECTION 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver.

No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or
remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a
waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by
this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as
often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.

SECTION 512. Control by Holders.

The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series
shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any
remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with
respect to the Securities of such series, provided that

(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture,

(2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not
inconsistent with such direction,

(3) such direction is not unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders, and

(4) such direction would not involve the Trustee in personal liability.

SECTION 513. Waiver of Past Defaults.

The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of
any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default
hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default

(1) in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any (subject to the provisions of Section 502), on any Security of such series, or

(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified
or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.

Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising
therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of the Securities of such series
under this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair
any right consequent thereon.

SECTION 514. Undertaking for Costs.

All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof
shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the
enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any
action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit
of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess
reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys  fees at trial and on appeal, against any party
litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses
made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit
instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any
Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement
of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security on or after the
Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or
after the Redemption Date).

ARTICLE SIX

THE TRUSTEE

SECTION 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.

(a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default,

(1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set
forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture
against the Trustee; and

(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the
truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or
opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the
case of any such certificate or opinion which by any provision hereof is specifically required to
be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine
whether or not it conforms to the requirements of this Indenture.

(b) In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise
such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and
skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the
conduct of his own affairs.

(c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability
for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct,
except that

(1) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsection (a) of this
Section;

(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a
Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the
pertinent facts;

(3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken, suffered or omitted to
be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in
principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, as provided in Section 512, relating
to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee,
or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to
the Securities of such series; and

(4) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to

expend or risk its own funds
or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in
the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that
repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably
assured to it.

(d) Whether or not herein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to
the conduct of or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be
subject to the provisions of this Section.

SECTION 602. Notice of Defaults.

Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the Securities of
any series, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders of Securities of such series, as
their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder
actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such default shall have been cured
or waived; provided, however, that except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal
of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of such series, in the payment of any
sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series or in the payment of the
Redemption Price of any Securities as to which notice of redemption has been given, the Trustee
shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the
executive committee or a trust committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in
good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of
Securities of such series; and provided, further, that in the case of any default of the character
specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders
shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this
Section, the term  default  means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both
would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.

SECTION 603. Certain Rights of Trustee.

Subject to the provisions of Section 601:

(a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any
resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction,
consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document
believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;

(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced
by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be
sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;

(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that
a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the
Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith
on its part, rely upon an Officers  Certificate;

(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion
of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken,
suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;

(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in
it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture,
unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the
costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or
direction;

(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated
in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction,
consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document,
but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts
or matters as it may see fit;

(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties
hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be
responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney, including any
Authenticating Agent, appointed with due care by it hereunder; and

(h) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted

by it in good faith and
believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by
this Indenture.

SECTION 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.

The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except certificates of authentication,
shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating
Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to
the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. Neither the Trustee nor any
Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities
or the proceeds thereof.

SECTION 605. May Hold Securities.

The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, the Security Registrar or any other
agent of the Company or the Trustee, in their individual or any other capacity, may become the
owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the
Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying
Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.

SECTION 606. Money Held in Trust.

Money held by the Trustee or any Paying Agent in trust hereunder need not be segregated from
other funds except to the extent required by law. Neither the Trustee nor any paying Agent shall be
subject to any liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise
agreed with the Company.

SECTION 607. Compensation and Reimbursement.

The Company agrees:

(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered
by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the
compensation of a trustee of an express trust);

(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request
for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in
accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the
expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or
advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and

(3) to indemnify the Trustee and its agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss,
liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part, arising out of or in
connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the
costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the
exercise or performance of any of their powers or duties hereunder.

As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section, the
Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by
the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal (or premium, if any)
or interest, if any, on Securities.

The provisions of this Section 607 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee or
the discharge of this Indenture. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a default
specified in Section 501(5) or (6) the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of
administration under any Bankruptcy law.

SECTION 608. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.

(a) If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest, as defined in this Section,
with respect to the Securities of any series, it shall, within 90 days after ascertaining that it
has such conflicting interest, either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign with respect to
the Securities of that series in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this
Article.

(b) In the event that the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Subsection (a)
of this Section with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall, within l0 days
after the expiration of such 90-day period, transmit by mail to all Holders of Securities of that
series, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register,
notice of such failure.

(c) For the purposes of this Section, the Trustee shall be deemed to have a conflicting
interest with respect to the Securities of any series if:

(1) the Trustee is trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Outstanding Securities of
any series other than that series or is trustee under another indenture under which any other
securities, or certificates of interest or participation in any other securities, of the Company
are outstanding, unless such other indenture is a collateral trust indenture under which the only
collateral consists of Securities issued under this Indenture, provided that there shall be
excluded from the operation of this paragraph this Indenture with respect to the Securities of any
series other than that series or any indenture or indentures under which other securities, or
certificates of interest or participation in other securities, of the Company are outstanding, if

(i) this Indenture and such other indenture or indentures are wholly unsecured and such other
indenture or indentures are hereafter qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, unless the
Commission shall have found and declared by order pursuant to Section 305(b) or Section 307(c) of
the Trust Indenture Act that differences exist between the provisions of this Indenture with
respect to Securities of that series and one or more other series or the provisions of such other
indenture or indentures which are so likely to involve a material conflict of interest as to make
it necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors to disqualify the Trustee
from acting as such under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series and such
other series or under such other indenture or indentures, or

(ii) the Company shall have sustained the burden of proving, on application to the Commission
and after opportunity for hearing thereon, that trusteeship under this Indenture with respect to
the Securities of that series and such other series or such other indenture or indentures is not so
likely to involve a material conflict of interest as to make it necessary in the public interest or
for the protection of investors to disqualify the Trustee from acting as such under this Indenture
with respect to the Securities of that series and such other series or under such other indenture
or indentures;

(2) the Trustee or any of its directors or executive officers is an obligor upon any
Securities of such series or an underwriter for the Company;

(3) the Trustee directly or indirectly controls or is directly or indirectly controlled by or
is under direct or indirect common control with the Company or an underwriter for the Company;

(4) the Trustee or any of its directors or executive officers is a director, officer, partner,
employee, appointee or representative of the Company, or of an underwriter (other than the Trustee
itself) for the Company who is currently engaged in the business of underwriting, except that (i)
one individual may be a director or an executive officer, or both, of the Trustee and a director or
an executive officer, or both, of the Company but may not be at the same time an executive officer
of both the Trustee and the Company; (ii) if and so long as the number of directors of the Trustee
in office is more than nine, one additional individual may be a director or an executive officer,
or both, of the Trustee and a director of the Company; and (iii) the Trustee may be designated by
the Company or by any underwriter for the Company to act in the capacity of transfer agent,
registrar, custodian, paying agent, fiscal agent, escrow agent or depositary, or in any other
similar capacity, or, subject to the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Subsection, to act as
trustee, whether under an indenture or otherwise;

(5) 10% or more of the voting securities of the Trustee is beneficially owned either by the
Company or by any director, partner or executive officer thereof, or 20% or more of such voting
securities is beneficially owned, collectively, by any two or more of such persons; or 10% or more
of the voting securities of the Trustee is beneficially owned either by an underwriter for the
Company or by any director, partner or executive officer thereof, or is beneficially owned,
collectively, by any two or more such persons;

(6) the Trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as collateral security for an obligation
which is in default (as hereinafter in this Subsection defined), (i) 5% or more of the voting
securities, or 10% or more of any other class of security, of the Company not including the
Securities issued under this Indenture and securities issued under any other indenture under which
the Trustee is also trustee, or (ii) 10% or more of any class of security of an underwriter for the
Company;

(7) the Trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as collateral

security for an obligation
which is in default (as hereinafter in this Subsection defined), 5% or more of the voting
securities of any person who, to the knowledge of the Trustee, owns 10% or more of the voting
securities of, or controls directly or indirectly or is under direct or indirect common control
with, the Company;

(8) the Trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as collateral security for an obligation
which is in default (as hereinafter in this Subsection defined), 10% or more of any class of
security of any person who, to the knowledge of the Trustee, owns 50% or more of the voting
securities of the Company; or

(9) the Trustee owns, on March 1 in any calendar year, in the capacity of executor,
administrator, testamentary or inter vivos trustee, guardian, committee or conservator, or in any
other similar capacity, an aggregate of 25% or more of the voting securities, or of any class of
security, of any person, the beneficial ownership of a specified percentage of which would have
constituted a conflicting interest under paragraph (6), (7) or (8) of this Subsection. As to any
such securities of which the Trustee acquired ownership through becoming executor, administrator or
testamentary trustee of an estate which included them, the provisions of the preceding sentence
shall not apply, for a period of two years from the date of such acquisition, to the extent that
such securities included in such estate do not exceed 25% of such voting securities or 25% of any
such class of security. Promptly after March 1 in each calendar year, the Trustee shall make a
check of its holdings of such securities in any of the above-mentioned capacities as of such March
1. If the Company fails to make payment in full of the principal of (or premium, if any) or
interest, if any, on any of the Securities when and as the same becomes due and payable, and such
failure continues for 30 days thereafter, the Trustee shall make a prompt check of its holdings of
such securities in any of the above-mentioned capacities as of the date of the expiration of such
30-day period, and after such date, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, all
such securities so held by the Trustee, with sole or joint control over such securities vested in
it, shall, but only so long as such failure shall continue, be considered as though beneficially
owned by the Trustee for the purposes of paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) of this Subsection with
respect to Securities of such series.

In determining whether the Trustee has a conflicting interest with respect to any series of
Securities under this Subsection, each other series of Securities will be treated as having been
issued under an indenture other than this Indenture.

The specification of percentages in paragraphs (5) through (9), inclusive, of this Subsection
shall not be construed as indicating that the ownership of such percentages of the securities of a
person is or is not necessary or sufficient to constitute direct or indirect control for the
purposes of paragraph (3) or (7) of this Subsection.

For the purposes of paragraphs (6), (7), (8) and (9) of this Subsection only, (i) the terms
 security  and  securities  shall include only such securities as are generally known as corporate
securities, but shall not include any note or other evidence of indebtedness issued to evidence an
obligation to repay moneys lent to a person by one or more banks, trust companies or banking firms,
or any certificate of interest or participation in any such note or evidence of indebtedness; (ii)
an obligation shall be deemed to be  in default  when a default in payment of principal shall have
continued for 30 days or more and shall not have been cured; and (iii) the Trustee shall not be
deemed to be the owner or holder of (A) any security which it holds as collateral security, as
trustee or otherwise, for an obligation which is not in default as defined in clause (ii) above, or
(B) any security which it holds as collateral security under this Indenture, irrespective of any
default hereunder, or (C) any security which it holds as agent for collection, or as custodian,
escrow agent or depositary, or in any similar representative capacity.

(d) For the purposes of this Section:

(1) The term  underwriter,  when used with reference to the Company, means every person who,
within three years prior to the time as of which the determination is made, has purchased from the
Company with a view to, or has offered or sold for the Company in connection with, the distribution
of any security of the Company outstanding at such time, or has participated or has had a direct or
indirect participation in any such undertaking, or has participated or has had a participation in
the direct or indirect underwriting of any such undertaking, but such term shall not include a
person whose interest was limited to a commission from an underwriter or dealer not in excess of
the usual and customary distributors  or sellers  commission.

(2) The term  director  means any director of a corporation or any
individual performing similar functions with respect to any organization,

whether incorporated or unincorporated.

(3) The term  person  means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a
joint-stock company, a trust, an unincorporated organization or a government or political
subdivision thereof. As used in this paragraph, the term  trust  shall include only a trust where
the interest or interests of the beneficiary or beneficiaries are evidenced by a security.

(4) The term  voting security  means any security presently entitling the owner or holder
thereof to vote in the direction or management of the affairs of a person, or any security issued
under or pursuant to any trust, agreement or arrangement whereby a trustee or trustees or agent or
agents for the owner or holder of such security are presently entitled to vote in the direction or
management of the affairs of a person.

(5) The term  Company  means any obligor upon the Securities.

(6) The term  executive officer  means the president, every vice president, every trust
officer, the cashier, the secretary and the treasurer of a corporation, and any individual
customarily performing similar functions with respect to any organization whether incorporated or
unincorporated, but shall not include the chairman of the board of directors.

(e) The percentages of voting securities and other securities specified in this Section shall
be calculated in accordance with the following provisions:

(1) A specified percentage of the voting securities of the Trustee, the Company or any other
person referred to in this Section (each of whom is referred to as a  person  in this paragraph)
means such amount of the outstanding voting securities of such person as entitles the holder or
holders thereof to cast such specified percentage of the aggregate votes which the holders of all
the outstanding voting securities of such person are entitled to cast in the direction or
management of the affairs of such person.

(2) A specified percentage of a class of securities of a person means such percentage of the
aggregate amount of securities of the class outstanding.

(3) The term  amount,  when used in regard to securities, means the principal amount if
relating to evidences of indebtedness, the number of shares if relating to capital shares and the
number of units if relating to any other kind of security.

(4) The term  outstanding  means issued and not held by or for the account of the issuer. The
following securities shall not be deemed outstanding within the meaning of this definition.

(i) securities of an issuer held in a sinking fund relating to securities of the issuer of the
same class;

(ii) securities of an issuer held in a sinking fund relating to another class of securities of
the issuer, if the obligation evidenced by such other class of securities is not in default as to
principal or interest or otherwise;

(iii) securities pledged by the issuer thereof as security for an obligation of the issuer not
in default as to principal or interest or otherwise; and

(iv) securities held in escrow if placed in escrow by the issuer thereof; provided, however,
that any voting securities of an issuer shall be deemed outstanding if any person other than the
issuer is entitled to exercise the voting rights thereof.

(5) A security shall be deemed to be of the same class as another security if both securities
confer upon the holder or holders thereof substantially the same rights and privileges; provided,
however, that, in the case of secured evidences of indebtedness, all of which are issued under a
single indenture, differences in the interest rates or maturity dates of various series thereof
shall not be deemed sufficient to constitute such series different classes; and provided, further,
that, in the case of unsecured evidences of indebtedness, differences in the interest rates or
maturity dates thereof shall not be deemed sufficient to constitute them securities of different
classes, whether or not they are issued under a single indenture

SECTION 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.

There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a

corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or
the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a
combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 subject to supervision or examination by
Federal, State or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of
condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or
examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of
such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most
recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in
accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with
the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.

SECTION 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.

(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee or
Trustees pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the
successor Trustee or Trustees in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.

(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by
giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor
Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after
the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such
series.

(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act
of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series,
delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.

(d) If at any time the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608(a) after written request
therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least
six months, the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to the Securities
of such series or, subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security
of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated,
petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to the
Securities of such series and the appointment of a successor Trustee.

(e) If at any time:

(1) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after
written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a
Security for at least six months, or

(2) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent
or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take
charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation,
conservation or liquidation,

then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect
to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a
Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated,
petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all
Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.

(f) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy
shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more
series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees
with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor
Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and
that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular
series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after
such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee
with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority
in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the
retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such
appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor
Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that

extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company with respect to such series. If no
successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the
Company or the Holders of the Securities of such series and accepted appointment in the manner
required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security of such series
for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any
court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the
Securities of such series.

(g) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with
respect to the securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to
the Securities of any series by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of such series as their names and addresses appear in the
Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the
Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.

SECTION 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.

(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all series of
Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the
resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee,
without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers,
trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor
Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges due pursuant to Section 607,
execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and
trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor
Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder subject to the lien provided
in Section 607.

(b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities
of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee
with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture
supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1)
shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to
vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee
with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor
Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all series of
Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that
all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities or
that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested
in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as
shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more
than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall
constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee
of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered
by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the
resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided
therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become
vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the
Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but,
on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring trustee shall duly assign,
transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee
hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or these series to which the appointment of such
successor Trustee relates.

(c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all
instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all
such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may
be.

(d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance
such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.

SECTION 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.

Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be
consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any

merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation
succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the
successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and
eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the
part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not
delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to
such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so
authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such
Securities.

SECTION 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.

(a) Subject to Subsection (b) of this Section, if the Trustee shall be or shall become a
creditor, directly or indirectly, secured or unsecured, of the Company within three months prior to
a default, as defined in Subsection (c) of this Section, or subsequent to such a default, then,
unless and until such default shall be cured, the Trustee shall set apart and hold in a special
account for the benefit of the Trustee individually, the Holders of the Securities and the holders
of other indenture securities, as defined in Subsection (c) of this Section:

(1) an amount equal to any and all reductions in the amount due and owing upon any claim as
such creditor in respect of principal or interest, effected after the beginning of such three month
period and valid as against the Company and its other creditors, except any such reduction
resulting from the receipt or disposition of any property described in paragraph (2) of this
Subsection, or from the exercise of any right of set-off which the Trustee could have exercised if
a petition in bankruptcy had been filed by or against the Company upon the date of such default;
and

(2) all property received by the Trustee in respect of any claims as such creditor, either as
security therefor, or in satisfaction or composition thereof, or otherwise, after the beginning of
such three month period, or an amount equal to the proceeds of any such property, if disposed of,
subject, however, to the rights, if any, of the Company and its other creditors in such property or
such proceeds.

Nothing herein contained, however, shall affect the right of the Trustee:

(A) to retain for its own account (i) payments made on account of any such claim by any person
(other than the Company) who is liable thereon, and (ii) the proceeds of the bona fide sale of any
such claim by the Trustee to a third Person, and (iii) distributions made in cash, securities or
other property in respect of claims filed against the Company in bankruptcy or receivership or in
proceedings for reorganization pursuant to the Federal Bankruptcy Code or applicable State law;

(B) to realize, for its own account, upon any property held by it as security for any such
claim, if such property was so held prior to the beginning of such three month period;

(C) to realize, for its own account, but only to the extent of the claim hereinafter
mentioned, upon any property held by it as security for any such claim, if such claim was created
after the beginning of such three month period and such property was received as security therefor
simultaneously with the creation thereof, and if the Trustee shall sustain the burden of proving
that at the time such property was so received the Trustee had no reasonable cause to believe that
a default, as defined in Subsection (c) of this Section, would occur within three months; or

(D) to receive payment on any claim referred to in paragraph (B) or (C), against the release
of any property held as security for such claim as provided in paragraph (B) or (C), as the case
may be, to the extent of the fair value of such property.

For the purposes of paragraphs (B), (C) and (D), property substituted after the beginning of
such three month period for property held as security at the time of such substitution shall, to
the extent of the fair value of the property released, have the same status as the property
released, and, to the extent that any claim referred to in any of such paragraphs is created in
renewal of or in substitution for or for the purpose of repaying or refunding any pre-existing
claim of the Trustee as such creditor, such claim shall have the same status as such pre-existing
claim.

If the Trustee shall be required to account, the funds and property held in such special
account and the proceeds thereof shall be apportioned among the Trustee, the Holders and the
holders of other indenture securities in such manner that the Trustee, the Holders and the holders
of other indenture securities realize, as a result of payments from such special account and
payments of dividends on claims filed against the

Company in bankruptcy or receivership or in proceedings for reorganization pursuant to the Federal
Bankruptcy Code or applicable State law, the same percentage of their respective claims, figured
before crediting to the claim of the Trustee anything on account of the receipt by it from the
Company of the funds and property in such special account and before crediting to the respective
claims of the Trustee and the Holders and the holders of other indenture securities dividends on
claims filed against the Company in bankruptcy or receivership or in proceedings for reorganization
pursuant to the Federal Bankruptcy Code or applicable State law, but after crediting thereon
receipts on account of the indebtedness represented by their respective claims from all sources
other than from such dividends and from the funds and property so held in such special account. As
used in this paragraph, with respect to any claim, the term  dividends  shall include any
distribution with respect to such claim, in bankruptcy or receivership or proceedings for
reorganization pursuant to the Federal Bankruptcy Code or applicable State law, whether such
distribution is made in cash, securities or other property, but shall not include any such
distribution with respect to the secured portion, if any, of such claim. The court in which such
bankruptcy, receivership or proceeding for reorganization is pending shall have jurisdiction (i) to
apportion among the Trustee, the holders and the holders of other indenture securities, in
accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the funds and property held in such special
account and proceeds thereof, or (ii) in lieu of such apportionment, in whole or in part, to give
to the provisions of this paragraph due consideration in determining the fairness of the
distributions to be made to the Trustee and the Holders and the holders of other indenture
securities with respect to their respective claims, in which event it shall not be necessary to
liquidate or to appraise the value of any securities or other property held in such special account
or as security for any such claim, or to make a specific allocation of such distributions as
between the secured and unsecured portions of such claims, or otherwise to apply the provisions of
this paragraph as a mathematical formula.

Any Trustee which has resigned or been removed after the beginning of such three month period
shall be subject to the provisions of this Subsection as though such resignation or removal had not
occurred. If any Trustee has resigned or been removed prior to the beginning of such three month
period, it shall be subject to the provisions of this Subsection if and only if the following
conditions exist:

(i) the receipt of property or reduction of claim, which would have given rise to the
obligation to account if such Trustee had continued as Trustee, occurred after the beginning of
such three month period; and

(ii) such receipt of property or reduction of claim occurred within three months after such
resignation or removal.

(b) There shall be excluded from the operation of Subsection (a) of this Section a creditor
relationship arising from:

(1) the ownership or acquisition of securities issued under any indenture, or any security or
securities having a maturity of one year or more at the time of acquisition by the Trustee;

(2) advances authorized by a receivership or bankruptcy court of competent jurisdiction or by
this Indenture, for the purpose of preserving any property which shall at any time be subject to
the lien of this Indenture or of discharging tax liens or other prior liens or encumbrances
thereon, if notice of such advances and of the circumstances surrounding the making thereof is
given to the Holders at the time and in the manner provided in this Indenture;

(3) disbursements made in the ordinary course of business in the capacity of trustee under an
indenture, transfer agent, registrar, custodian, escrow agent, paying agent, fiscal agent or
depositary, or other similar capacity;

(4) an indebtedness created as a result of services rendered or premises rented; or an
indebtedness created as a result of goods or securities sold in a cash transaction, as defined in
Subsection (c) of this Section;

(5) the ownership of stock or of other securities of a corporation organized under the
provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, which is directly or indirectly
a creditor of the Company; and

(6) the acquisition, ownership, acceptance or negotiation of any drafts, bills of exchange,
acceptances or obligations which fall within the classification of self-liquidating paper, as
defined in Subsection (c) of this Section.

(c) For the purposes of this Section only:

(1) the term  default  means any failure to make payment in full of the principal of (or
premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any of the Securities or upon the other indenture
securities when and as such principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, becomes due and
payable;

(2) the term  other indenture securities  means securities upon which the Company is an
obligor outstanding under any other indenture (i) under which the Trustee is also trustee, (ii)
which contains provisions substantially similar to the provisions of this Section, and (iii) under
which a default exists at the time of the apportionment of the funds and property held in the
special account provided for in this Section;

(3) the term  cash transaction  means any transaction in which full payment for goods or
securities sold is made within seven days after delivery of the goods or securities in currency or
in checks or other orders drawn upon banks or bankers and payable upon demand;

(4) the term  self-liquidating paper  means any draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or
obligation which is made, drawn, negotiated or incurred by the Company for the purpose of financing
the purchase, processing, manufacturing, shipment, storage or sale of goods, wares or merchandise
and which is secured by documents evidencing title to, possession of, or a lien upon, the goods,
wares or merchandise or the receivables or proceeds arising from the sale of the goods, wares or
merchandise previously constituting the security, provided the security is received by the Trustee
simultaneously with the creation of the creditor relationship with the Company arising from the
making, drawing, negotiating or incurring of the draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation;

(5) the term  Company  means any obligor upon the Securities; and

(6) the term  Federal Bankruptcy Code  means the United States Bankruptcy Code or Title 11 of
the United States Code.

SECTION 614. Appointment of Authenticating Agent.

At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding the Trustee may appoint an
Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be
authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate and deliver Securities of such series
with respect to which it has been so designated, and Securities so authenticated and delivered
shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all
purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder.

Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities
by the Trustee or the Trustee s certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to
include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a
certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each
Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a bank or trust
company or corporation organized and doing business and in good standing under the laws of the
United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as
Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and
subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State or District of Columbia authority. If such
Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the
requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the
combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined
capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any
time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this
Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect
specified in this Section.

Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it
may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to
which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate
agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an
Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this section,
without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the
Authenticating Agent.

An Authenticating Agent may resign with respect to one or more series of Securities at any
time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any
time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent with respect to one or more series of

Securities by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon
receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such
Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section,
the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company
and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all
holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as
their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon
acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties
of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent.
No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this
Section.

The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable
compensation for its services under this Section. The provisions of Sections 104, 111, 603, 604 and
605 shall be applicable to any Authenticating Agent.

Pursuant to each appointment made under this Section, the Securities of each series covered by
such appointment may have endorsed thereon, in lieu of the Trustee s certificate of authentication,
an alternate certificate of authentication in substantially the following form:

This is one of the Securities, of the series designated herein, issued under the
within-mentioned Indenture.

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A. 

By:   

as Authenticating Agent,  

By:   

Authorized Officer  

ARTICLE SEVEN

HOLDERS  LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY

SECTION 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.

The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee with respect to the
Securities of each series (a) semi-annually, either (i) not later than June 30 and December 31 in
each year in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities which by their terms bear interest only
after Maturity, or (ii) not later than 15 days after each Regular Record Date in the case of
Securities of any other series, if and so long as Securities of such series are Outstanding, and
(b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the
Company of such request, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require containing all
the information in the possession or control of the Company, or any of its Paying Agents other than
the Trustee, as to the names and addresses of the Holders obtained since the date as of which the
next previous list, if any, was furnished; provided, however, that any such list may exclude names
and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar if it shall be so
acting. Any such list may be dated as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such
information is furnished or caused to be furnished and need not include information received after
such date.

SECTION 702. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.

(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names
and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in
Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as
Security Registrar or Paying Agent, if so acting.

The Trustee may (i) destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt
of a new complete list so furnished, (ii) destroy any information received by it as Paying Agent or
Security Registrar (if so acting) hereunder upon delivering to itself as Trustee, not earlier than
45 days after June 30 and December 31 of each year, a list containing the names and addresses of
the Holders obtained from such information since the delivery of the next previous list, if any,
and (iii) destroy any list delivered to itself as Trustee which was compiled from information
received by it as Paying Agent or Security Registrar (if so acting) hereunder upon the receipt of a
new complete list so delivered.

(b) If three or more Holders of Securities of any series (herein referred to as  applicants )
apply in writing to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such
applicant has owned a Security of such series for a period of at least six months preceding the
date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate
with other Holders of Securities of such series or with Holders of all Securities with respect to
their rights under this Indenture or under such Securities and is accompanied by a copy of the form
of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall,
within five business days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either

(i) afford such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in
accordance with Section 702(a), or

(ii) inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders of Securities of such
series or all Securities as the case may be whose names and addresses appear in the information
preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 702(a), and as to the approximate
cost of mailing to such Holders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such
application.

If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants access to such information, the
Trustee shall upon the written request of such applicants mail to each Holder of Securities of such
series or all Securities as the case may be whose name and address appear in the information
preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 702(a), a copy of the form of proxy
or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a
tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of
the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five days after such tender the Trustee shall
mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be
mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would
be contrary to the best interest of the Holders of Securities of such series or all Securities as
the case may be or would be in violation of applicable law. Such written statement shall specify
the basis of such opinion. If the Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections
specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such
objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the
Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so
sustained have been met and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of
such material to all such Holders with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the
renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such
applicants respecting their application.

(c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and
the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security
Registrar nor any agent of any of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any
such information as to the names and addresses of holders in accordance with Section 702(b),
regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be
held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 702(b).

SECTION 703. Reports by Trustee.

(a) Within 60 days after May 1 of each year commencing with the May 1 following the date of
this Indenture, if and so long as any Securities are Outstanding hereunder, the Trustee shall
transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, a
brief report dated as of such March 1 that complies with Trust Indenture Act Para. 313(a). The
Trustee shall also comply with Trust Indenture Act Para. 313(b).

(b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by
the Trustee with each securities exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission
and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any
securities exchange.

SECTION 704. Reports by Company.

The Company shall:

(1) file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with
the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports
(or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by
rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the

Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents
or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the
Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the
Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be
required pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of a security
listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in
such rules and regulations;

(2) file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations
prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports
with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as
may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations; and

(3) transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses appear in the Security
Register, within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any
information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to paragraphs (1)
and (2) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by
the Commission.

ARTICLE EIGHT 
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS; SUCCESSOR CORPORATION

SECTION 801. Certain Definitions.

Asset Securitization Subsidiary  means (i) any Subsidiary engaged solely in the business of
effecting asset securitization transactions, and (ii) any Subsidiary whose primary purpose is to
hold title or ownership interests in vehicles, mortgage loans, relocation assets and related assets
under management.

Consolidated Assets  means, at any date of determination, the total assets of the Company and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in effect from time to time.

Consolidated Net Worth  means, at any date of determination, all amounts which would be
included on a balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries under stockholders
equity determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time
to time.

Consolidated Subsidiaries  means all Subsidiaries of the Company that are required to be
consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.

Debt  means (i) all debt, obligations and other liabilities of the Company and its
Subsidiaries which are, at the date as of which Debt is to be determined, includable as liabilities
in a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, other than (x) accounts
payable and accrued expenses, (y) advances from clients obtained in the ordinary course of the
relocation management services business of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (z) current and
deferred income taxes and other similar liabilities, plus (ii) without duplicating any items
included in Debt pursuant to the foregoing clause (i), the maximum aggregate amount of all
liabilities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under any guaranty, indemnity or similar
undertaking given or assumed of, or in respect of, the indebtedness, obligations or other
liabilities, assets, revenues, income or dividends of any Person other than the Company or one of
its Subsidiaries and (iii) all other obligations or liabilities of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries in relation to the discharge of the obligations of any Person other than the Company
or one of its Subsidiaries.

Lien  means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or encumbrance.

Material U.S. Subsidiary  means any Subsidiary of the Company which together with its
Subsidiaries at the time of determination had assets constituting 10% or more of Consolidated
Assets, accounts for 10% or more of Consolidated Net Worth, or accounts for 10% or more of the
revenues of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the Rolling Period immediately
preceding the date of determination.

Person  means any natural person, corporation, division of a corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, estate, unincorporated
organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.

Revolving Lien  means any Lien which extends to property in existence on the date of creation
of such Lien and also to any property of substantially the same characteristics subsequently
acquired in the ordinary course of business of the Company or a Material U.S. Subsidiary.

Rolling Period  means, with respect to any fiscal quarter, such fiscal quarter and the three
immediately preceding fiscal quarters considered as a single accounting period.

Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiary  shall mean PHH Caribbean Leasing, Inc. and any subsidiary
engaged in the fleet-leasing management business which (i) is, at any one time, a party to one or
more lease agreements with only one lessee and (ii) finances, at any one time, its investment in
lease agreements on vehicles with only one lender, which lender may be the Company.

SECTION 802. Limitation on Liens.

The Company shall not, and it shall not permit any Material U.S. Subsidiary to, incur any Lien
to secure Debt without equally and ratably securing the Securities, except the following:

(a) deposits under worker s compensation, unemployment insurance and social security laws or
to secure statutory obligations or surety or appeal bonds or performance or other similar bonds in
the ordinary course of business, or statutory liens of landlords, carriers, warehousemen, mechanics
and materialmen and other similar Liens, in respect of liabilities which are not yet due or which
are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, Liens for taxes not yet due and
payable, and Liens for taxes due and payable, the validity or amount of which is currently being
contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and as to which foreclosure and other
enforcement proceedings shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or otherwise effectively
stayed);

(b) purchase money Liens granted to the vendor or Person financing the acquisition of
property, plant or equipment if (i) limited to the specific assets acquired and, in the case of
tangible assets, other property which is an improvement to or is acquired for specific use in
connection with such acquired property or which is real property being improved by such acquired
property; and (ii) the debt secured by such Lien is the unpaid balance of the acquisition cost of
the specific assets on which the Lien is granted.

(c) Liens and Revolving Liens upon real and/or personal property, each of which Liens or
Revolving Liens existed before the time of the Company s acquisition of such property or the
company owning such property and was not created in anticipation thereof and any extensions or
renewals thereof; provided that no such Lien or Revolving Lien shall extend to or cover any
property of the Company or a Material U.S. Subsidiary other than the respective property so
acquired and improvements thereon;

(d) Liens and Revolving Liens upon real and/or personal property of a Person who in connection
with the Company s acquisition of the stock or equity of such Person becomes a Material U.S.
Subsidiary, each of which Liens or Revolving Liens existed before the time of the Company s
acquisition of such Person and was not created in anticipation thereof and any extension or renewal
of such Liens; provided that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any property of the Company or a
Material U.S. Subsidiary other than the Material U.S. Subsidiary (and its acquired affiliates) so
acquired;

(e) Liens arising out of attachments, judgments or awards as to which an appeal or other
appropriate proceedings for contest or review are promptly commenced (and as to which foreclosure
and other enforcement proceedings (i) shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or
otherwise effectively stayed) or (ii) in any event shall be promptly fully bonded or otherwise
effectively stayed);

(f) Liens securing Debt of any Material U.S. Subsidiary to the Company;

(g) Liens securing Debt and related obligations, or securing interests in asset sale
transactions which could alternatively be characterized as Debt, or securing obligations to pay
rent incurred in connection with asset securitization transactions, which Debt or securitized
assets are not reported on the Company s consolidated balance sheet or that of the Company s
Material U.S. Subsidiaries, and which liens cover only the assets securitized in the applicable
asset securitization transaction or other assets identified in connection with an asset
securitization transaction and liens on the stock or equity of any special purpose vehicle the sole
purpose of which is to effectuate such asset securitization transaction;

(h) Liens securing Debt and related obligations of an Asset Securitization Subsidiary issued
in asset securitization transactions, which Debt or securitized assets are reported on the
Company s consolidated balance sheet or that of the Company s Material U.S. Subsidiaries, and which
liens cover only the assets securitized in the applicable asset securitization transaction or other
assets identified in connection with an asset securitization transaction, and liens on the stock of
such Asset Securitization Subsidiary;

(i) Liens covering only the property or other assets of any Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiary
and securing only Debt of such Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiary;

(j) mortgage liens existing on homes acquired by the Company or any of its Material U.S.
Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of their relocation management business;

(k) other Liens incidental to the conduct of the business of the Company or its Subsidiaries
or the ownership of their property and other assets, which do not secure any Debt and did not
otherwise arise in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit
and which do not, in the aggregate, materially detract from the value of the property or other
assets of the Company or its Subsidiaries or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of
their businesses;

(l) Liens covering only the property or other assets of any Subsidiary which principally
transacts business outside of the United States;

(m) Liens existing prior to the date of this Indenture and any extensions or renewals thereof;

(n) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business to secure Debt utilized to fund net
investments in leases and leased vehicles, equity advances on homes and other assets under
management programs; and

(o) Liens to secure Debt not otherwise permitted by any of the clauses (a) through (k) if, at
the time any such Liens are incurred, the aggregate amount of Debt secured by such Liens does not
exceed $250,000,000.

SECTION 803. Intentionally Omitted

SECTION 804. Intentionally Omitted

SECTION 805. No Lien Created, etc.

This Indenture and the Securities do not create a Lien, charge or encumbrance on any property
of the Company or any Subsi A Debt or lease obligation shall be counted only once even if more than
one person is responsible for the obligation.

SECTION 806. When Company May Merge, etc.

The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into, or transfer all or substantially all of
its assets to, another corporation unless the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation
assumes by supplemental indenture all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this
Indenture. Thereafter all such obligations of the predecessor corporation shall terminate.

SECTION 807. When Securities Must Be Secured.

If upon any such consolidation, merger or transfer any property or assets of the Company would
become subject to an attaching Lien that secures Debt, then before the consolidation, merger or
transfer occurs, the Company shall secure the Securities equally and ratably with or prior to the
Debt secured by the attaching Lien. However, the Company need not comply with this Section if the
Company could secure such Debt by a Lien on the property of the Company without equally and ratably
securing the Securities.

SECTION 808. Opinion of Counsel.

The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 601 and 603, shall be provided an Opinion
of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, and any
such assumption, complies with the provisions of this Article VIII.

ARTICLE NINE

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES

SECTION 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.

Without the consent of any Holder, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the
Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental
hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:

(1) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by any
such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or

(2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series
of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of
Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such
series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; provided, however,
that in respect of any such additional covenant, such supplemental indenture may provide for a
particular period of grace after default in the performance of such covenant (which period may be
shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other defaults) or may provide for an immediate
enforcement upon such default or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such default;
or

(3) to add any additional Events of Default; or

(4) add to or change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture to extent as shall
be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not
registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons; or

(5) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, provided that any such
change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any
series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the
benefit of such provision; or

(6) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Sections 802 or 807 or otherwise;
or

(7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201
and 301; or

(8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee
with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions
of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the
trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611(b); or

(9) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be
inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to
matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided such action shall not adversely affect
the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect.

SECTION 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.

With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of each series (each such series voting as a separate class) affected by
such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the
Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or
indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any
manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the
rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no
such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security
affected thereby,

(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or
interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon
or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or modify the manner of determination of the
rate of interest thereon so as to affect adversely the interest of such Holder or reduce the amount
of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a
declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or change any Place of
Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or the interest
thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment
on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the

Redemption Date), or

(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the
consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose
Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or
certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or

(3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1006, except to
increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot
be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected
thereby, provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any
Holder with respect to changes in the references to the  Trustee  and concomitant changes in this
Section and Section 1006, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of
Sections 611(b) and 901(8).

A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this
Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series
of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with
respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this
Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.

The Trustee may in its discretion determine whether or not any Securities would be affected by
any supplemental indenture and any such determination shall he conclusive upon the Holders of all
Securities of any series. The Trustee shall not be liable for any such determination made in good
faith.

It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular
form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve
the substance thereof.

SECTION 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures.

In executing or accepting the additional trusts created by any supplemental indenture
permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the
Trustee shall be provided, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon,
an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or
permitted by this Indenture and that such supplemental indenture, when executed and delivered by
the Company, will constitute a valid and binding obligation of the Company in accordance with its
terms. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture
which affects the Trustee s own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.

SECTION 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.

Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article,
this Indenture shall, with respect to such series, be deemed to be modified and amended in
accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and
immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of Securities of the
series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in
all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such
supplemental indenture, with respect to such series, shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms
and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.

SECTION 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.

Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the
requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, in effect on such date.

SECTION 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.

Securities of any series, affected by a supplemental indenture, authenticated and delivered
after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if
required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided
for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series
so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such
supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered
by the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.

ARTICLE TEN

COVENANTS

SECTION 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.

The Company covenants and agrees that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and
premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of each series in accordance with the
terms of the Securities of such series and this Indenture.

SECTION 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency.

The Company will cause to be maintained in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities
an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment,
where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and
where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and
this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the
location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. With respect to the Securities
of any series such office or agency and each place of Payment shall be as specified as contemplated
in Section 301. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series
(i) the place of payment for such securities shall be the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York,
New York, and (ii) such office or agency in such Place of Payment shall be the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee therein. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required
office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations,
surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee,
and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations,
surrenders, notices and demands.

The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or
outside the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, New York) where the Securities of one or more
series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time
rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any
manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each place of
Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice
to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such
office or agency.

SECTION 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.

If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of
Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or
interest, if any, on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the
benefit of the persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any)
or interest, if any, so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such persons or otherwise
disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to
act.

Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it
will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on
any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal
(and premium, if any) or interest, if any, so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the
benefit of the persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying
Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to
act.

The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee for any series of Securities
to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such paying Agent shall agree with the
Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:

(1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or
interest, if any, on Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled
thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;

(2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the
Securities of that series) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or
interest, if any, on the Securities of that series; and

(3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the
Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.

The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of
this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay,
to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by
the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such
Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any paying Agent to the Trustee, such paying agent shall be
released from all further liability with respect to such money. Upon the satisfaction and discharge
of the indebtedness in respect of all Outstanding Securities of any series all sums then held by
any Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) in respect thereof shall, upon demand of the Company, be
repaid to it or paid to the Trustee, and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all
further liability with respect to such money.

The Trustee and any Paying Agent shall promptly pay to the Company upon Company Request any
money or securities held by them at any time in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy amounts
payable to the Holders, the Trustee and the Paying Agent.

Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in
trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any
Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if
any) or interest, if any, has become due and payable shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory
provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be paid to the Company on
Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the
Holder of such Security shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable
escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law, thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look
only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with
respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon
cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any
such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper
published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general
circulation in each Place of Payment with respect to Securities of such series, notice that such
money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30
days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will,
unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed
property law, be repaid to the Company.

SECTION 1004. Corporate Existence.

Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to
preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence.

SECTION 1005. Statement as to Compliance.

The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of
the Company ending after the date hereof, a certificate of the principal executive officer, the
principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer (which need not comply with Section
102), stating as to each signer thereof that

(1) a review of the activities of the Company during such year and of performance under this
Indenture has been made under his supervision, and

(2) as of the end of such year and at the date of the certificate to the best of his
knowledge, based on such review, (a) the Company is not in default in the fulfillment of any of its
obligations under this Indenture, or specifying each such default known to him and the nature and
status thereof and (b) no event has occurred and is continuing which is or after notice or lapse of
time or both would become an Event of Default, or, if such an event has occurred and is continuing,
specifying each such event known to him and the nature and status thereof.

SECTION 1006. Waiver of Certain Covenants.

The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set
forth in Sections 802 through 804 and Sections 1002 to 1005, each inclusive, with respect to the
Securities of any series if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority
in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders,
either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or
condition, but no such

waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly
waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the
duties of the Trustee with respect to any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and
effect.

ARTICLE ELEVEN

REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES

SECTION 1101. Applicability of Article.

Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable
in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301
for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.

SECTION 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.

The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution.
In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any
series, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company
(unless a shorter notice, but not less than 30 days, shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify
the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such
series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any
restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this
Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers  Certificate evidencing
compliance with such restriction.

SECTION 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to be Redeemed.

If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to
be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date,
from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method
as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for
redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series
or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a
denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. In any
case where Securities of such series are registered in the same name, the Trustee in its discretion
may treat the aggregate principal amount so registered as if it were represented by one Security of
such series. If the Securities of any series to be redeemed consist of Securities having different
Stated Maturities or different rates of interest (or methods of computing interest), then the
Company may, by written notice to the Trustee, direct that the Securities of such series to be
redeemed shall be selected from among groups of such Securities having specified Stated Maturities
or rates of interest (or methods or computing interest) and the Trustee shall thereafter select the
particular Securities to be redeemed in the manner set forth above from among the groups of such
Securities so specified.

The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for
redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount
thereof to be redeemed.

For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions
relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to
be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or
is to be redeemed.

SECTION 1104. Notice of Redemption.

Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than
30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed,
at his address appearing in the Security Register.

All notices of redemption shall state;

(1) the Redemption Date,

(2) the Redemption Price,

(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the
identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular
Securities to be redeemed,

(4) in case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such
Security shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Security, the
Holder will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for
the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed,

(5) that on the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each
such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and
after said date,

(6) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the
Redemption Price, and

(7) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case.

Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be
given by the Company or, at the Company s request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of
the Company. In the case of redemptions by the Company of Global Securities, the Company shall, at
least 30 days prior to the Redemption Date, notify the Depositary (with a copy to the Trustee) of
such redemption.

SECTION 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price.

On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a
Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as
provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except
if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities
which are to be redeemed on that date.

SECTION 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date.

Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall,
on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from
and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and
accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security
for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the
Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that
installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be
payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as
such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date according to their terms and the
provisions of Section 307.

If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for
redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the
Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.

SECTION 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part.

Any security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment
therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the
Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the
Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new
Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such
Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the
principal of the Security so surrendered; provided, however, that the Depositary need not surrender
Global Securities for a partial redemption and may be authorized to make a notation on such Global
Security of such partial redemption. In the case of a partial redemption of the Global Securities,
the Depositary, and in turn, the participants in the Depositary, shall have the responsibility to
select any Securities to be redeemed by random lot.

ARTICLE TWELVE

SINKING FUNDS

SECTION 1201. Applicability of Article.

The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of
Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities
of such series.

The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the

terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a  mandatory sinking fund payment , and
any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series
is herein referred to as an  optional sinking fund payment.  If provided for by the terms of
Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction
as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of
Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.

SECTION 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.

The Company may, in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect
to the Securities of any series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as
provided for by the terms of such series (1) deliver Outstanding Securities of such series (other
than any previously called for redemption) and (2) apply as a credit Securities of such series
which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such series
of Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to
the terms of such Securities, in each case, provided that such Securities have not been previously
so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the
Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund
and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.

SECTION 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.

Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities,
the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate specifying the amount of the next
ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion
thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which
is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202,
and the amount of any optional sinking fund payment to be added to the next ensuing sinking fund
payment, and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. If such Officers 
Certificate shall specify an optional amount to be added in cash to the next ensuing mandatory
sinking fund payment, the Company shall thereupon be obligated to pay the amount therein specified.
Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the
Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section
1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of
the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the
redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections
1106 and 1107.

* * *

This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall
be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the
same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and
their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year
first above written.

PHH CORPORATION 

(SEAL) 
       
     By: 
       
     /s/ Eric J. Bock 

Name:

Eric J. Bock 

Title:

Senior Vice President   Law 

Corporate Secretary 

Attest: 

By:

/s/ Lynn A. Feldman

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A. 

(SEAL) 
       
     By: 
       
     /s/ Steve M. Husbands 

Name:

Steve M. Husbands 

Title:

Assistant Vice President 

Attest: 

By:

/s/ Eva Aryeete

</EX-4.3>

<EX-4.4>
 4
 y26027exv4w4.htm
 EX-4.4: SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO.1

EX-4.4 

EXHIBIT 4.4 

PHH CORPORATION

Issuer

to

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

Trustee

Supplemental Indenture No. 1

Dated as of November 6, 2000

SENIOR DEBT SECURITIES

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 1

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 1, dated as of November 6, 2000, between PHH Corporation, a
corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Maryland (the  Company ),
and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association duly organized and existing under
the laws of the United States of America (the  Trustee ), as trustee under the Senior Indenture
hereinafter mentioned.

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the Company duly authorized the execution and delivery of a Senior Debt Securities
Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2000 (the  Senior Indenture ), providing for the issuance from
time to time of Securities of the Company, unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of
interest, to mature at such time or times, to be issued in one or more series; and

WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Senior Indenture permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into
one or more indentures supplemental to the Senior Indenture to, among other things, add any
additional covenants of the Company for the holders of a particular series of Securities and to
change or eliminate any provision of the Senior Indenture so long as such change or elimination
shall not become effective with respect to any particular series entitled to the benefit of such
provision until such time as no Securities of such series are outstanding;

WHEREAS, the Company desires to supplement or amend the Senior Indenture only with respect to
series of Securities issued subsequent to the date of this Supplemental Indenture No. 

WHEREAS, the supplements or amendments to the Senior Indenture set forth herein shall have no
effect upon any series of Securities Outstanding on the date hereof;

WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental
Indenture No. 1 and to make this Supplemental Indenture No. 1 valid and binding have been complied
with or have been done or performed.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above, the Company hereby requests
that the Trustee join with it in this Supplemental Indenture No. 1 to add to the covenants of the
Company in the Senior Indenture as follows:

ARTICLE ONE 
DEFINITIONS

Section 1.01. For all purposes of the Senior Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture No. 1,
except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

(a) unless indicated otherwise,  herein,   hereof  and other words of similar import refer to
this Supplemental Indenture No. 1 as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other
subdivision; and

(b) all capitalized terms used in this Supplemental Indenture No. 1 but not defined herein
shall have the meanings assigned such terms in the Senior Indenture.

ARTICLE TWO 
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

Section 2.01. Limitation on Restricted Payments.

The Company, (i) shall not, directly or indirectly, declare or pay any dividend, or make any
distributions on account of the Capital Stock of the Company, and (ii) shall not make, or permit
any Subsidiary of the Company to make any loan, advance to or investment in Cendant and its
subsidiaries (excluding the Subsidiaries of the Company) (the transactions described in clauses (i)
and (ii) being referred to herein as  Restricted Payments ), if at the time thereof, upon giving
effect to such Restricted Payment, the Debt/Equity Ratio of the Company exceeds 6.5 to 1.

Section 2.02. Debt/Tangible Equity Ratio.

The Company shall maintain, as of the last day of each quarter, a Debt/Tangible Equity Ratio
of not more than 10.0 to 1.0.

Consolidated Net Worth  of any Person means the consolidated stockholders  equity of such
Person and its consolidated subsidiaries, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles plus amounts representing mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities issued by such Person or its Subsidiaries.

Capital Stock  means any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other
equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock or similar interests in any other form of
entity, including, without limitation, with respect to partnerships, partnership interests (whether
general or limited) and any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to
receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, such partnership.

Debt  means (i) all debt, obligations and other liabilities of the Company and its
Subsidiaries which are, at the date as of which Debt is to be determined, includable as liabilities
in a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, other than (x) accounts
payable and accrued expenses, (y) advances from clients obtained in the ordinary course of the
relocation management services business of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (z) current and
deferred income taxes and other similar liabilities, plus (ii) without duplicating any items
included in Debt pursuant to the foregoing clause (i), the maximum aggregate amount of all
liabilities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under any guaranty, indemnity or similar
undertaking given or assumed of, or in respect of, the indebtedness, obligations or other
liabilities, assets, revenues, income or dividends of any Person other than the Company or one of
its Subsidiaries and (iii) all other obligations or liabilities of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries in relation to the discharge of the obligations of any Person other than the Company
or one of its Subsidiaries, provided however, that any debt assumed by the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries in connection with the acquisition of Avis Group Holdings, Inc. ( Avis ) (whether by
merger with or into Avis or by the guarantee of debt of Avis or its Subsidiaries), which is
transferred to Cendant or a Subsidiary thereof (other than PHH and its Subsidiaries) within 90 days
of such debt assumption shall not be deemed debt for purposes of the Debt/Equity Ratio or the
Debt/Tangible Equity Ratio. In the event that any such debt is not transferred within such 90 day
period, such debt will be deemed to have been incurred by PHH on the last day of such 90 day period
for purposes of the foregoing ratios.

Debt/Equity Ratio  means the ratio of (x) the principal amount of Debt to (y) the
Consolidated Net Worth of the Company.

Debt/Tangible Equity Ratio  means the ratio of (x) principal amount of Debt to (y) Tangible
Net Worth.

Tangible Net Worth  means, with respect to any Person at any date, the Consolidated Net Worth
of such Person, less the aggregate book value of all intangible assets of such Person (as
determined in accordance with GAAP).

ARTICLE THREE 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES 
WITH CONSENT OF HOLDER

Section 3.01. Subject to Section 901 of the Indenture, with the consent of the Holders of not
less than 66-2/3% of the aggregate in principal amount of the outstanding securities (each such
series voting as the same class) affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holder
delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and
the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding
any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating Section 2.01 hereof.

ARTICLE FOUR 
MISCELLANEOUS

Section 4.01. All of the terms and conditions of the Senior Indenture shall remain in full
force and effect.

Section 4.02. The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals herein
contained, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company. The Trustee makes no
representation and shall have no responsibility as to the validity of this Supplemental Indenture
No. 1.

Section 4.03. In case of any provision in this Supplemental Indenture No. 1 shall be invalid,
illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions of
this Supplemental Indenture No.1 or the Senior Indenture shall not in any way be affected of
impaired thereby.

Section 4.04. This Supplemental Indenture No.1 shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York. This Supplemental Indenture No.1 is subject to
the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and shall, to the extent applicable,
be governed by such provisions.

Section 4.05. This Supplement Indenture No. 1 may be executed in any number of counterparts,
each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but such counterparts shall together
constitute but one and the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Trustee have caused this Supplemental Indenture No. 1
to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized all as of the day and
the year first above written.

PHH CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Eric J. Bock

Name:   
     Eric J. Bock     

Title:   
     Senior Vice President - Law
  Corporate Secretary  

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee 

By:   
     /s/ Steve M. Husbands

Name:   
     Steve M. Husbands  

Title:   
     Assistant Vice President  

</EX-4.4>

<EX-10.1>
 5
 y26027exv10w1.htm
 EX-10.1: BASE INDENTURE

EX-10.1 

EXHIBIT 10.1 

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, 
as Issuer

and

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as Indenture Trustee

BASE INDENTURE

Dated as of June 30, 1999

Asset Backed Notes 
(Each Issuable in Series)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

-i- 

-ii- 

-iv-

BASE INDENTURE, dated as of June 30, 1999, between GREYHOUND FUNDING
LLC, a special purpose limited liability company established under the laws of Delaware, as issuer
(the  Issuer ), and THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (in such
capacity, the  Indenture Trustee ).

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to
provide for the issuance from time to time of one or more series of Notes from time to time,
issuable as provided in this Indenture;

WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a legal, valid and binding agreement of
the Issuer, in accordance with its terms, have been done, and the Issuer proposes to do all the
things necessary to make the Investor Notes, when executed by the Issuer and authenticated and
delivered by the Indenture Trustee hereunder and duly issued by the Issuer, the legal, valid and
binding obligations of the Issuer as hereinafter provided;

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the receipt of the Investor Notes
by the Investor Noteholders, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate
benefit of all Investor Noteholders as follows:

ARTICLE I.

DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE

Section A. Definitions.

Certain capitalized terms used herein (including the preamble and the recitals hereto) shall
have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Definitions List attached hereto as Schedule 1 (the
 Definitions List ), as such Definitions List may be amended or modified from time to time in
accordance with the provisions hereof.

Section B. Cross-References.

Unless otherwise specified, references in this Indenture and in each other Transaction
Document to any Article or Section are references to such Article or Section of this Indenture or
such other Transaction Document, as the case may be and, unless otherwise specified, references in
any Article, Section or definition to any clause are references to such clause of such Article,
Section or definition.

-1-

Section C. Accounting and Financial Determinations; No Duplication.

Where the character or amount of any asset or liability or item of income or expense is
required to be determined, or any accounting computation is required to be made, for the purpose of
this Indenture, such determination or calculation shall be made, to the extent applicable and
except as otherwise specified in this Indenture, in accordance with GAAP. When used herein, the
term  financial statement  shall include the notes and schedules thereto. All accounting
determinations and computations hereunder or under any other Transaction Documents shall be made
without duplication.

Section D. Rules of Construction.

In this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires:

a. the singular includes the plural and vice versa;

b. reference to any Person includes such Person s successors and assigns but, if
applicable, only if such successors and assigns are permitted by this Indenture, and
reference to any Person in a particular capacity only refers to such Person in
such capacity;

c. reference to any gender includes the other gender;

d. reference to any Requirement of Law means such Requirement of Law as amended,
modified, codified or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect from time to time;

e.  including  (and with correlative meaning  include ) means including without
limiting the generality of any description preceding such term; and

f. with respect to the determination of any period of time,  from  means  from and
including  and  to  means  to but excluding .

ARTICLE I.

THE INVESTOR NOTES

A. Designation and Terms of Investor Notes.

-2-

Each Series of Investor Notes and any Class thereof may be issued in bearer form (the  Bearer
Notes ) with attached interest coupons and a special coupon (collectively, the  Coupons ) or in
fully registered form (the  Registered Notes ), and, in each case, substantially in the form
specified in the applicable Indenture Supplement, with such appropriate insertions, omissions,
substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted hereby or by the related Indenture
Supplement and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or
endorsements placed thereon as may, consistently herewith, be determined to be appropriate by the
Authorized Officers executing such Investor Notes, as evidenced by their execution of the Investor
Notes. All Investor Notes of any Series shall, except as specified in the related Indenture
Supplement, be equally and ratably entitled as provided herein to the benefits hereof without
preference, priority or distinction on account of the actual time or times of authentication and
delivery, all in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Indenture and the applicable
Indenture Supplement. The aggregate principal amount of Investor Notes which may be authenticated
and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Investor Notes shall be issued in the
denominations set forth in the related Indenture Supplement.

B. Investor Notes Issuable in Series.

1. The Investor Notes may be issued in one or more Series. Each Series of Investor Notes
shall be created by an Indenture Supplement.

2. Investor Notes of a new Series may from time to time be executed by the Issuer and
delivered to the Indenture Trustee for authentication and thereupon the same shall be authenticated
and delivered by the Indenture Trustee upon the receipt of an Issuer Request at least three (3)
Business Days (or such shorter time as is acceptable to the Indenture Trustee) in advance of the
related Series Closing Date and upon delivery by the Issuer to the Indenture Trustee, and receipt
by the Indenture Trustee, of the following:

(i) an Issuer Order authorizing and directing the authentication and delivery of the
Investor Notes of such new Series by the Indenture Trustee and specifying the designation
of such new Series, the Initial Invested Amount (or the method for calculating
such Initial Invested Amount) and the Note Rate (or the method for allocating interest
payments or other cash flows to such Series), if any, with respect to such Series;

(ii) an Indenture Supplement satisfying the criteria set forth in Section 2.2(c)
executed by the Issuer and specifying the Principal Terms of such Series;

(iii) a Tax Opinion;

-3-

(iv) written confirmation from each Rating Agency that the Rating Agency Condition
shall have been satisfied with respect to such issuance;

(v) an Officer s Certificate of the Issuer, that on the Series Closing Date after
giving effect to the issuance of such new Series, (i) neither an Amortization Event nor a
Potential Amortization Event with respect to any Series of Investor Notes nor an
Asset Deficiency is continuing or will occur, (ii) the issuance of the new Series of
Investor Notes will not result in any breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions
of or constitute a default under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust or other agreement
or instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which it or its property is
bound or any order of any court or administrative agency entered in any suit, action or
other judicial or administrative proceeding to which the Issuer is a party or by which it
or its property may be bound or to which it or its property may be subject and
(iii) all conditions precedent provided in this Base Indenture and the related Indenture
Supplement with respect to the authentication and delivery of the new Series of Investor
Notes have been complied with; and

(vi) such other documents, instruments, certifications, agreements or other items as
the Indenture Trustee may reasonably require.

3. In conjunction with the issuance of a new Series of Investor Notes, the parties
hereto shall execute an Indenture Supplement, which shall specify the relevant terms with respect
to any newly issued Series of Investor Notes, which may include without limitation:

a. its name or designation;

b. an Initial Invested Amount or the method of calculating the Initial Invested
Amount;

c. the Note Rate (or formula for the determination thereof);

d. the Series Closing Date;

e. each Rating Agency rating such Series;

f. the name of the Clearing Agency or Foreign Clearing Agency, if any;

g. the interest payment date or dates and the date or dates from which interest shall
accrue;

-4-

h. the method of allocating Collections with respect to such Series;

i. the method by which the principal amount of Investor Notes of such Series shall
amortize or accrete;

j. the names of any Series Accounts to be used by such Series and the terms governing
the operation of any such accounts and use of moneys therein;

k. the Series Servicing Fee and the Series Servicing Fee Percentage;

l. the terms on which the Investor Notes of such Series may be redeemed, repurchased
or remarketed to other investors;

m. any deposit into any Series Account;

n. the number of Classes of such Series, and if more than one Class, the rights and
priorities of each such Class;

o. the priority of any Series with respect to any other Series;

p. the Lease Rate Caps required to be maintained with respect to such Series; and

q. any other relevant terms of such Series (including whether or not such Series will
be pledged as collateral for an issuance of any other securities, including commercial
paper) (all such terms, the  Principal Terms  of such Series).

The terms of such Indenture Supplement may modify or amend the terms of this Indenture solely as
applied to such new Series. If on the date of the issuance of such Series there is issued and
outstanding one or more Series of Investor Notes and no Series of Investor Notes is currently rated
by a Rating Agency, then as a condition to such issuance a nationally recognized investment banking
firm or commercial bank shall also deliver to the Indenture Trustee a certificate of an officer
thereof stating, in substance, that, to the best of such officer s knowledge and belief, the
issuance of such new Series of Investor Notes will not have a material adverse effect on the timing
or distribution of payments to such other Series of Investor Notes then issued and outstanding.

4. The Issuer may direct the Indenture Trustee to deposit all or a portion of the net
proceeds from the issuance of any new Series of Investor Notes into a Series Account for another
Series of Investor

-5-

Notes and may specify that the proceeds from the sale of such new Series of Investor Notes may
be used to reduce the Invested Amount of another Series of Investor Notes.

C. Execution and Authentication.

1. The Investor Notes shall, upon issue pursuant to Section 2.2, be executed on behalf
of the Issuer by an Authorized Officer and delivered by the Issuer to the Indenture Trustee for
authentication and redelivery as provided herein. If an Authorized Officer whose signature is on
an Investor Note no longer holds that office at the time the Investor Note is authenticated, the
Investor Note shall nevertheless be valid.

2. At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture,
the Issuer may deliver Investor Notes of any particular Series executed by the Issuer to the
Indenture Trustee for authentication, together with one or more Issuer Orders for the
authentication and delivery of such Investor Notes, and the Indenture Trustee, in accordance with
such Issuer Order and this Indenture, shall authenticate and deliver such Investor Notes. If
specified in the related Indenture Supplement for any Series of Investor Notes, the Indenture
Trustee shall authenticate and deliver outside the United States the Global Note that is issued
upon original issuance thereof, upon receipt of an Issuer Order, to the Depository against payment
of the purchase price therefor. If specified in the related Indenture Supplement for any Series of
Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall authenticate Book-Entry Notes that are issued upon
original issuance thereof, upon receipt of an Issuer Order, to a Clearing Agency, a Foreign
Clearing Agency or its nominee as provided in Section 2.10 against payment of the purchase price
thereof.

3. No Investor Note shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid
for any purpose unless there appears on such Investor Note a certificate of authentication
substantially in the form provided for herein, duly executed by the Indenture Trustee by the manual
signature of a Responsible Officer (and the Luxembourg agent (the  Luxembourg Agent ), if such
Investor Notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange). Such signatures on such certificate
shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that the Investor Note has been duly
authenticated under this Indenture. The Indenture Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent
acceptable to the Issuer to authenticate Investor Notes. Unless limited by the term of such
appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Investor Notes whenever the Indenture Trustee
may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Indenture Trustee includes
authentication by such agent. The Indenture Trustee s certificate of authentication shall be in
substantially the following form:

-6-

This is one of the Investor Notes of a series issued under the within mentioned Indenture.

THE CHASE 

MANHATTAN BANK, as 

Indenture Trustee 

By: 

Authorized Signatory 

4. Each Investor Note shall be dated and issued as of the date of its authentication by
the Indenture Trustee, except Bearer Notes which shall be dated the applicable Series Closing Date
as provided in the related Indenture Supplement..

5. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Investor Note shall have been authenticated and
delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Issuer, and the Issuer shall deliver such
Investor Note to the Indenture Trustee for cancellation, together with a written statement (which
need not comply with Section 13.2 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating
that such Investor Note has never been issued and sold by the Issuer, for all purposes of this
Indenture such Investor Note shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered
hereunder and shall not be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.

D. Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Notes.

1. The Issuer shall cause to be kept at the office or agency to be maintained by a
transfer agent and registrar (the  Transfer Agent and Registrar ), a register (the  Note Register )
in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Transfer Agent and
Registrar shall provide for the registration of the Investor Notes of each Series (unless otherwise
provided in the related Indenture Supplement) and of transfers and exchanges of the Investor Notes
as herein provided. Chase is hereby initially appointed Transfer Agent and Registrar for the
purposes of registering the Investor Notes and transfers and exchanges of the Investor Notes as
herein provided. If any form of Investor Note is issued as a Global Note, the Indenture Trustee
may, or if and so long as any Series of Investor Notes is listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
and such exchange shall so require, the Indenture Trustee shall appoint a co-transfer agent and
co-registrar in Luxembourg or another European city. Any reference in this Indenture to the
Transfer Agent and Registrar shall include any co-transfer agent and co-registrar unless the
context otherwise requires. Chase shall be permitted to resign as Transfer Agent and Registrar
upon 30 days  written notice to the Indenture Trustee; provided, however, that such resignation
shall not be effective and Chase shall continue to perform its duties as

-7-

Transfer Agent and Registrar until the Indenture Trustee has appointed a successor Transfer
Agent and Registrar with the consent of the Issuer.

If a Person other than the Indenture Trustee is appointed by the Issuer as the Transfer Agent
and Registrar, the Issuer will give the Indenture Trustee prompt written notice of the appointment
of such Transfer Agent and Registrar and of the location, and any change in the location, of the
Transfer Agent and Register, and the Indenture Trustee shall have the right to inspect the Transfer
Agent and Register at all reasonable times and to obtain copies thereof.

An institution succeeding to the corporate agency business of the Transfer Agent and Registrar
shall continue to be the Transfer Agent and Registrar without the execution or filing of any paper
or any further act on the part of the Indenture Trustee or such Transfer Agent and Registrar.

The Transfer Agent and Registrar shall maintain in The City of New York (and, if so specified
in the related Indenture Supplement for any Series of Notes, any other city designated in such
Indenture Supplement) an office or offices or agency or agencies where Investor Notes may be
surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange. The Transfer Agent and Registrar initially
designates its corporate trust office located at 450 West 33rd Street, New York, New York
10001-2697 as its office for such purposes. The Transfer Agent and Registrar shall give prompt
written notice to the Indenture Trustee, the Issuer and to the Investor Noteholders of any change
in the location of such office or agency.

Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Investor Note at the office or agency of
the Transfer Agent and Registrar, if the requirements of Section 2.4(b) and Section 8-401(a) of the
UCC are met, the Issuer shall execute and after the Issuer has executed, the Indenture Trustee
shall authenticate and (if the Transfer Agent and Registrar is different than the Indenture
Trustee, then the Transfer Agent and Registrar shall) deliver to the Investor Noteholder, in the
name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Investor Notes, in any authorized
denominations, of the same Class and a like aggregate principal amount; provided, however that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to Bearer Notes.

At the option of any Holder of Registered Notes, Registered Notes may be exchanged for other
Registered Notes of the same Series in authorized denominations of like aggregate principal amount,
upon surrender of the Registered Notes to be exchanged at any office or agency of the Transfer
Agent and Registrar maintained for such purpose. At the option of any holder of Bearer Notes,
subject to applicable laws and regulations (including without limitation, the Bearer Rules), Bearer
Notes may be exchanged for other Bearer Notes or Registered Notes of the same Series in authorized
denominations of like aggregate principal amount, in the manner

-8-

specified in the Indenture Supplement for such Series, upon surrender of the Bearer Notes to
be exchanged at an office or agency of the Transfer Agent and Registrar located outside the United
States. Each Bearer Note surrendered pursuant to this Section 2.4 shall have attached thereto (or
be accompanied by) all unmatured Coupons, provided that any Bearer Note so surrendered after the
close of business on the Record Date preceding the relevant Payment Date need not have attached the
Coupons relating to such Payment Date.

Whenever any Investor Notes of any Series are so surrendered for exchange, if the requirements
of Section 8-401(a) of the UCC are met, the Issuer shall execute and after the Issuer has executed,
the Indenture Trustee shall authenticate and (if the Transfer Agent and Registrar is different than
the Indenture Trustee, then the Transfer Agent and Registrar shall) deliver to the Investor
Noteholder, the Investor Notes which the Investor Noteholder making the exchange is entitled to
receive.

All Investor Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of the Investor Notes
shall be the valid obligations of the Issuer, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same
benefits under this Indenture, as the Investor Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer
or exchange.

Every Investor Note presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be
(i) duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to
the Indenture Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder s attorney duly
authorized in writing, with such signature guaranteed by a commercial bank or trust company
located, or having a correspondent located, in The City of New York or the city in which the
Corporate Trust Office is located, or by a member firm of a national securities exchange, and (ii)
accompanied by such other documents as the Indenture Trustee may require.

The preceding provisions of this Section 2.4 notwithstanding, the Indenture Trustee or the
Transfer Agent and Registrar, as the case may be, shall not be required to register the transfer of
or exchange any Investor Note of any Series for a period of 15 days preceding the due date for any
payment in full of the Investor Notes of such Series.

Unless otherwise provided in the related Indenture Supplement, no service charge shall be made
for any registration of transfer or exchange of Investor Notes, but the Transfer Agent and
Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may
be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Investor Notes.

All Investor Notes (together with any Coupons attached to Bearer Notes) surrendered for
registration of transfer and exchange shall be

-9-

canceled by the Transfer Agent and Registrar and disposed of in a manner satisfactory to the
Indenture Trustee. The Indenture Trustee shall cancel and destroy any Global Notes upon its
exchange in full for Definitive Notes and shall deliver a certificate of destruction to the Issuer.
Such certificate shall also state that a certificate or certificates of each Foreign Clearing
Agency was received with respect to each portion of such Global Note exchanged for Definitive Notes
in accordance with the related Indenture Supplement.

The Issuer shall execute and deliver to the Indenture Trustee or the Transfer Agent and
Registrar, as applicable, Bearer Notes and Registered Notes in such amounts and at such times as
are necessary to enable the Indenture Trustee to fulfill its responsibilities under this Indenture
and the Investor Notes.

2. Unless otherwise provided in the related Indenture Supplement, registration of
transfer of Registered Notes containing a legend relating to the restrictions on transfer of such
Registered Notes (which legend shall be set forth in the Indenture Supplement relating to such
Investor Notes) shall be effected only if the conditions set forth in such related Indenture
Supplement are satisfied.

E. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Notes.

If (a) any mutilated Investor Note (together, in the case of Bearer Notes, with all unmatured
Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto) is surrendered to the Transfer Agent and Registrar, or the
Transfer Agent and Registrar receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or
theft of any Investor Note and (b) there is delivered to the Transfer Agent and Registrar and the
Indenture Trustee such security or indemnity as may be reasonably required by them to save each of
them harmless, then provided that the requirements of Section 8-405 of the UCC are met, the Issuer
shall execute and after the Issuer has executed, the Indenture Trustee shall authenticate and
(unless the Transfer Agent and Registrar is different from the Indenture Trustee, in which case the
Transfer Agent and Registrar shall) deliver (in compliance with applicable law), in exchange for or
in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Investor Note, a new Investor Note of like
tenor and aggregate principal amount; provided, however, that if any such destroyed, lost or stolen
Investor Note, but not a mutilated Investor Note, shall have become or within seven days shall be
due and payable, instead of issuing a replacement Investor Note, the Issuer may pay such destroyed,
lost or stolen Investor Note when so due or payable without surrender thereof. If, after the
delivery of such replacement Investor Note or payment of a destroyed, lost or stolen Investor Note
pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, a purchaser for value of the original Investor
Note in lieu of which such replacement Investor Note was issued presents for payment such original
Investor Note, the Issuer, the Transfer

-10-

Agent and Registrar and the Indenture Trustee shall be entitled to recover such replacement
Investor Note (or such payment) from the Person to whom it was delivered or any Person taking such
replacement Investor Note from such Person to whom such replacement Investor Note was delivered or
any assignee of such Person, except a purchaser for value, and shall be entitled to recover upon
the security or indemnity provided therefor to the extent of any loss, damage, cost or expense
incurred by the Issuer, the Transfer Agent and Registrar or the Indenture Trustee in connection
therewith.

In connection with the issuance of any new Investor Note under this Section 2.5, the Indenture
Trustee or the Transfer Agent and Registrar may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover
any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses
(including the fees and expenses of the Indenture Trustee and the Transfer Agent and Registrar)
connected therewith. Any duplicate Investor Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.5 shall
constitute an original contractual obligation of the Issuer whether or not the lost, stolen or
destroyed note shall be found at any time.

F. Appointment of Paying Agent.

1. The Indenture Trustee may appoint a Paying Agent with respect to the Investor Notes. The
Indenture Trustee hereby appoints Chase as the initial Paying Agent. The Paying Agent shall have
the revocable power to withdraw funds and make distributions to Investor Noteholders from the
appropriate account or accounts maintained for the benefit of Noteholders as specified in this
Indenture or the related Indenture Supplement for any Series pursuant to Article 5. The Indenture
Trustee may revoke such power and remove the Paying Agent, if the Indenture Trustee determines in
its sole discretion that the Paying Agent shall have failed to perform its obligations under this
Indenture in any material respect or for other good cause. The Indenture Trustee shall notify the
Rating Agency of the removal of any Paying Agent. If any form of Investor Note is issued as a
Global Note, or if and so long as any Series of Investor Notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock
Exchange and such exchange shall so require, the Indenture Trustee shall appoint a co-paying agent
in Luxembourg or another European city. The Paying Agent shall be permitted to resign as Paying
Agent upon 30 days  written notice to the Indenture Trustee. In the event that any Paying Agent
shall no longer be the Paying Agent, the Indenture Trustee shall appoint a successor to act as
Paying Agent (which shall be a bank or trust company and may be the Indenture Trustee) with the
consent of the Issuer. The provisions of Sections 10.01, 10.02, 10.03 and 10.06 shall apply to the
Indenture Trustee also in the capacity of Paying Agent, for so long as the Indenture Trustee shall
act as Paying Agent. Any reference in this Indenture to the Paying Agent shall include any
co-paying agent unless the context requires otherwise.

-11-

2. The Indenture Trustee shall cause each Paying Agent (other than itself) to execute
and deliver to the Indenture Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the
Indenture Trustee that such Paying Agent will:

a. hold all sums held by it for the payment of amounts due with respect to the
Investor Notes in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums
shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and pay such
sums to such Persons as herein provided;

b. give the Indenture Trustee notice of any default by the Issuer of which it has
actual knowledge in the making of any payment required to be made with respect to the
Investor Notes;

c. at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request
of the Indenture Trustee, forthwith pay to the Indenture Trustee all sums so held in trust
by such Paying Agent;

d. immediately resign as a Paying Agent and forthwith pay to the Indenture Trustee
all sums held by it in trust for the payment of the Investor Notes if at any time it
ceases to meet the standards required to be met by the Paying Agent at the time of its
appointment; and

e. comply with all requirements of the Code with respect to the withholding from any
payments made by it on any Investor Notes of any applicable withholding taxes imposed
thereon and with respect to any applicable reporting requirements in connection therewith.

An institution succeeding to the corporate agency business of the Paying Agent shall continue to be
the Paying Agent without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the
Indenture Trustee or such Paying Agent.

3. Subject to applicable laws with respect to escheat of funds, any money held by the
Indenture Trustee or any Paying Agent or a Clearing Agency or a Foreign Clearing Agency in trust
for the payment of any amount due with respect to any Investor Note and remaining unclaimed for two
years after such amount has become due and payable shall be discharged from such trust and be paid
to the Issuer on Issuer Request; and the Holder of such Investor Note shall thereafter, as an
unsecured general creditor, look only to the Issuer for payment thereof (but only to the extent of
the amounts so paid to the Issuer), and all liability of the Indenture Trustee or such Paying Agent
with respect to such trust money shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Indenture
Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense
of the Issuer

-12-

cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily
published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York City, and London and
Luxembourg (if the related Series of Investor Notes has been listed on the Luxembourg Stock
Exchange), if applicable, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified
therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed
balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Issuer. The Indenture Trustee may also
adopt and employ, at the expense of the Issuer, any other reasonable means of notification of such
repayment.

G. Persons Deemed Owners.

Prior to due presentation of an Investor Note for registration of transfer, the Indenture
Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Transfer Agent and Registrar and any agent of any of them may treat
the Person in whose name any Investor Note is registered as the owner of such Investor Note for the
purpose of receiving distributions pursuant to Article 5 (as described in any Indenture Supplement)
and for all other purposes whatsoever, and neither the Indenture Trustee, the Paying Agent, the
Transfer Agent and Registrar nor any agent of any of them shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary.

In the case of a Bearer Note, the Indenture Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Transfer Agent and
Registrar and any agent of any of them may treat the holder of a Bearer Note or Coupon as the owner
of such Bearer Note or Coupon for the purpose of receiving distributions pursuant to Article 5 and
for all other purposes whatsoever, and neither the Indenture Trustee, the Paying Agent, the
Transfer Agent and Registrar nor any agent of any of them shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary.

H. Investor Noteholder List.

The Indenture Trustee will furnish or cause to be furnished by the Transfer Agent and
Registrar to the Issuer or the Paying Agent, within five Business Days after receipt by the
Indenture Trustee of a request therefor from the Issuer or the Paying Agent, respectively, in
writing, a list in such form as the Issuer or the Paying Agent may reasonably require, of the names
and addresses of the Investor Noteholders of each Series as of the most recent Record Date for
payments to such Investor Noteholders. Unless otherwise provided in the related Indenture
Supplement, holders of Investor Notes of any Series in a principal amount aggregating not less than
10% of the Investor Interest of such Series (the  Applicants ) may apply in writing to the
Indenture Trustee, and if such application states that the Applicants desire to communicate with
other Investor Noteholders of any Series with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under
the Investor Notes and is accompanied by a copy of the communication which such Applicants propose
to transmit, then the Indenture Trustee, after having been

-13-

adequately indemnified by such Applicants for its costs and expenses, shall afford or shall
cause the Transfer Agent and Registrar to afford such Applicants access during normal business
hours to the most recent list of Investor Noteholders held by the Indenture Trustee and shall give
the Issuer notice that such request has been made, within five Business Days after the receipt of
such application. Such list shall be as of a date no more than 45 days prior to the date of
receipt of such Applicants  request. Every Investor Noteholder, by receiving and holding an
Investor Note, agrees with the Indenture Trustee that neither the Indenture Trustee, the Transfer
Agent and Registrar, nor any of their respective agents shall be held accountable by reason of the
disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Investor Noteholders
hereunder, regardless of the source from which such information was obtained.

The Indenture Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the
most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Investor Noteholders of each Series
of Investor Notes. If the Indenture Trustee is not the Registrar, the Issuer shall furnish to the
Indenture Trustee at least seven Business Days before each Payment Date and at such other time as
the Indenture Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the
Indenture Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Investor Noteholders of each
Series of Investor Notes.

I. Treasury Notes.

In determining whether the Investor Noteholders of the required principal amount of Investor
Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Investor Notes owned by the Issuer or any
Affiliate of the Issuer shall be considered as though they are not Outstanding, except that for the
purpose of determining whether the Indenture Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such
direction, waiver or consent, only Investor Notes of which the Indenture Trustee has received
written notice of such ownership shall be so disregarded. Absent written notice to the Indenture
Trustee of such ownership, the Indenture Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of the
identity of the individual beneficial owners of the Investor Notes.

J. Book-Entry Notes.

Unless otherwise provided in any related Indenture Supplement, the Investor Notes, upon
original issuance, shall be issued in the form of typewritten Notes representing the Book-Entry
Notes, to be delivered to the depository specified in such Indenture Supplement (the  Depository )
which shall be the Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency, by or on behalf of such Series.
The Investor Notes of each Series shall, unless otherwise provided in the related Indenture
Supplement,

-14-

initially be registered on the Note Register in the name of the nominee of the Clearing Agency
or the Foreign Clearing Agency. No Beneficial Owner will receive a definitive note representing
such Beneficial Owner s interest in the related Series of Investor Notes, except as provided in
Section 2.11. Unless and until definitive, fully registered Investor Notes of any Series
( Definitive Notes ) have been issued to Beneficial Owners pursuant to Section 2.11:

1. the provisions of this Section 2.10 shall be in full force and effect with
respect to each such Series;

2. the Issuer, the Paying Agent, the Transfer Agent and Registrar and the
Indenture Trustee may deal with the Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency and the
applicable Clearing Agency Participants for all purposes (including the payment of
principal of and interest on the Investor Notes and the giving of instructions or
directions hereunder) as the sole Holder of the Investor Notes, and shall have no
obligation to the Beneficial Owners;

3. to the extent that the provisions of this Section 2.10 conflict with any
other provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of this Section 2.10 shall control with
respect to each such Series; and

4. the rights of Beneficial Owners of each such Series shall be exercised only
through the Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency and the applicable Clearing
Agency Participants and shall be limited to those established by law and agreements
between such Beneficial Owners and the Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing
Agency and/or the Clearing Agency Participants, and all references in this Indenture to
actions by the Noteholders shall refer to actions taken by the Clearing Agency or the
Foreign Clearing Agency upon instructions from the Clearing Agency Participants, and
all references in this Indenture to distributions, notices, reports and statements to
the Noteholders shall refer to distributions, notices, reports and statements to the
Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency, as registered holder of the Investor Notes
of such Series for distribution to the Beneficial Owners in accordance with the
procedures of the Clearing Agency. Pursuant to the Depository Agreement applicable to a
Series, unless and until Definitive Notes of such Series are issued pursuant to Section
2.11, the initial Clearing Agency will make book-entry transfers among the Clearing
Agency Participants and receive and transmit distributions of principal and interest on
the Investor Notes to such Clearing Agency Participants.

K. Definitive Notes.

-15-

If (i) (A) the Issuer advises the Indenture Trustee in writing that the Clearing Agency or the
Foreign Clearing Agency is no longer willing or able to discharge properly its responsibilities
under the applicable Depository Agreement, and (B) the Indenture Trustee or the Issuer is unable to
locate a qualified successor, (ii) the Issuer, at its option, advises the Indenture Trustee in
writing that it elects to terminate the book-entry system through the Clearing Agency or the
Foreign Clearing Agency with respect to any Series or (iii) after the occurrence of an Event of
Default, Beneficial Owners of a Majority in Interest of a Series of Investor Notes advise the
Indenture Trustee and the applicable Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency through the
applicable Clearing Agency Participants in writing that the continuation of a book-entry system
through the applicable Clearing Agency or Foreign Clearing Agency is no longer in the best
interests of such Beneficial Owners, the Indenture Trustee shall notify all Beneficial Owners of
such Series, through the applicable Clearing Agency Participants, of the occurrence of any such
event and of the availability of Definitive Notes to Beneficial Owners of such Series requesting
the same. Upon surrender to the Indenture Trustee of the Investor Notes of such Series by the
applicable Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency, accompanied by registration instructions
from the applicable Clearing Agency or the applicable Foreign Clearing Agency for registration, the
Issuer shall execute and the Indenture Trustee shall authenticate and (if the Transfer Agent and
Registrar is different than the Indenture Trustee, then the Transfer Agent and Registrar shall)
deliver the Definitive Notes in accordance with the instructions of the Clearing Agency. Neither
the Issuer nor the Indenture Trustee shall be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions
and may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, such instructions. Upon the
issuance of Definitive Notes of such Series all references herein to obligations imposed upon or to
be performed by the applicable Clearing Agency or Foreign Clearing Agency shall be deemed to be
imposed upon and performed by the Indenture Trustee, to the extent applicable with respect to such
Definitive Notes, and the Indenture Trustee shall recognize the Holders of the Definitive Notes of
such Series as Noteholders of such Series hereunder.

L. Global Note.

If specified in the related Indenture Supplement for any Series, the Investor Notes may be
initially issued in the form of a single temporary Global Note (the  Global Note ) in bearer form,
without interest coupons, in the denomination of the Initial Invested Amount and substantially in
the form attached to the related Indenture Supplement. Unless otherwise specified in the related
Indenture Supplement, the provisions of this Section 2.12 shall apply to such Global Note. The
Global Note will be authenticated by the Indenture Trustee upon the same conditions, in
substantially the same manner and with the same effect as the Definitive Notes. The Global Note
may

-16-

be exchanged in the manner described in the related Indenture Supplement for Registered or
Bearer Notes in definitive form.

M. Principal and Interest.

1. The principal of each Series of Investor Notes shall be payable at the times and in
the amount set forth in the related Indenture Supplement and in accordance with Section 6.1.

2. Each Series of Investor Notes shall accrue interest as provided in the related
Indenture Supplement and such interest shall be payable on each Payment Date for such Series in
accordance with Section 6.1 and the related Indenture Supplement.

3. Except as provided in the following sentence, the Person in whose name any Investor
Note is registered at the close of business on any Record Date with respect to a Payment Date for
such Investor Note shall be entitled to receive the principal and interest payable on such Payment
Date notwithstanding the cancellation of such Investor Note upon any registration of transfer,
exchange or substitution of such Investor Note subsequent to such Record Date. Any interest
payable at maturity shall be paid to the Person to whom the principal of such Investor Note is
payable.

4. If the Issuer defaults in the payment of interest on the Investor Notes of any
Series, such interest, to the extent paid on any date that is more than five (5) Business Days
after the applicable due date, shall, at the option of the Issuer, cease to be payable to the
Persons who were Investor Noteholders of such Series at the applicable Record Date and the Issuer
shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner, plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable
on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Investor Noteholders of such Series on a
subsequent special record date which date shall be at least five (5) Business Days prior to the
payment date, at the rate provided in this Indenture and in the Investor Notes of such Series. The
Issuer shall fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, and at least
15 days before the special record date, the Issuer (or the Indenture Trustee, in the name of and at
the expense of the Issuer) shall mail to Investor Noteholders of such Series a notice that states
the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.

N. Tax Treatment.

The Issuer has structured this Indenture and the Investor Notes have been (or will be) issued
with the intention that the Investor Notes will qualify under applicable tax law as indebtedness of
the Issuer and any entity acquiring any direct or indirect interest in any Investor Note by
acceptance of its Investor Notes (or, in the case of a Beneficial Owner, by

-17-

virtue of such Beneficial Owner s acquisition of a beneficial interest therein) agrees to
treat the Investor Notes (or beneficial interests therein) for purposes of Federal, state and local
and income or franchise taxes and any other tax imposed on or measured by income, as indebtedness
of the Issuer. Each Investor Noteholder agrees that it will cause any Beneficial Owner s acquiring
an interest in an Investor Note through it to comply with this Indenture as to treatment as
indebtedness for such tax purposes.

ARTICLE II.

SECURITY

A. Grant of Security Interest.

1. To secure the Issuer Obligations, the Issuer hereby pledges, assigns, conveys,
delivers, transfers and sets over to the Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of the Investor
Noteholders, and hereby grants to the Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of the Investor
Noteholders, a security interest in, all of the Issuer s right, title and interest in and to all of
the Issuer s assets, property and interests in property of any kind or nature whatsoever (other
than as specified below) whether now or hereafter existing, acquired or created (all of the
foregoing being referred to as the  Collateral ), including without limitation, all right, title
and interest of the Issuer in the following property and interests in property:

a. the SUBIs, the SUBI Certificates and any related rights, authority, powers and
privileges of the holder thereof under the related Origination Trust Documents and all
payments and distributions thereunder of whatever kind or character and whether in
cash or other property, at any time made or distributable to the Issuer thereunder or in
respect thereof, whether due or to become due, including, without limitation, the
immediate and continuing right of the Issuer to receive and collect all amounts
payable to the holder thereof and all of the Issuer s rights, remedies, powers, interests
and privileges under the Origination Trust Documents (whether arising pursuant to the
terms thereof or otherwise available to the Issuer), including, without limitation,
the right to enforce the Origination Trust Documents, to give or withhold any and all
consents, requests, notices, directions, approvals or waivers thereunder and all amounts
due and to become due thereunder, whether payable as indemnities or damages for breach
thereof;

b. a beneficial interest in the Initial Units and any Unit Leases, Unit Vehicles
and the Related Rights associated therewith, and all Additional Units and any Unit Leases,
Unit Vehicles and the Related Rights associated therewith hereafter

-18-

acquired by the Issuer, including, without limitation, all monies due or to become
due with respect thereto and all proceeds thereof;

c. the Transfer Agreement, including, without limitation, all of the Issuer s
rights, remedies, powers, interests and privileges under the Transfer Agreement (whether
arising pursuant to the terms thereof or otherwise available to the Issuer),
including, without limitation, the right to enforce the Transfer Agreement, to give or
withhold any and all consents, requests, notices, directions, approvals or waivers
thereunder and all amounts due and to become due thereunder, whether payable as
indemnities or damages for breach thereof;

d. the Administration Agreement, including, without limitation, all of the Issuer s
rights, remedies, powers, interests and privileges under the Administration Agreement
(whether arising pursuant to the terms thereof or otherwise available to the
Issuer), including, without limitation, the right to enforce the Administration Agreement,
to give or withhold any and all consents, requests, notices, directions, approvals or
waivers thereunder and all amounts due and to become due thereunder, whether payable as
indemnities or damages for breach thereof;

e. the Collection Account and the Gain on Sale Account and all monies on deposit
from time to time in the Collection Account and the Gain on Sale Account and all proceeds
thereof (including any Permitted Investments purchased with monies from any
account held for the benefit of the Issuer or the Investor Noteholders and any investment
earnings thereon);

f. each Series Account and all monies on deposit from time to time in such Series
Account and all proceeds thereof (including any Permitted Investments purchased with
monies from any account held for the benefit of the Issuer or the Investor
Noteholders and any investment earnings thereon);

g. all additional property that may from time to time hereafter (pursuant to the
terms of any Indenture Supplement or otherwise) be subjected to the grant and pledge
hereof by the Issuer, including, without limitation, any Hedging Instruments; and

h. all proceeds of any and all of the foregoing including, without limitation, all
present and future claims, demands, causes of action and chooses in action in respect of
any or all of the foregoing and all payments on or under and all proceeds of every
kind and nature whatsoever in respect of any or all

-19-

of the foregoing, including all proceeds of the conversion thereof, voluntary or
involuntary, into cash or other liquid property, all cash proceeds, accounts, accounts
receivable, notes, drafts, acceptances, chattel paper, checks, deposit accounts, insurance
proceeds, condemnation awards, rights to payment of any and every kind and other
forms of obligations and receivables, instruments and other property which at any time
constitute all or part of or are included in the proceeds of any of the foregoing.

2. The foregoing grant is made in trust to secure the Issuer Obligations and to secure
compliance with the provisions of this Indenture and any Indenture Supplement, all as provided in
this Indenture. The Indenture Trustee, as Indenture Trustee on behalf of the Investor Noteholders,
acknowledges such grant, accepts the trusts under this Indenture in accordance with the provisions
of this Indenture and subject to Section 10.1 and 10.2, agrees to perform its duties required in
this Indenture to the best of its abilities to the end that the interests of the Investor
Noteholders may be adequately and effectively protected. The Collateral shall secure the Investor
Notes equally and ratably without prejudice, priority (except, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, as otherwise stated in the applicable Indenture Supplement) or distinction.

Section B. Transaction Documents.

Upon the occurrence of a default or breach by any Person party to a Transaction Document,
promptly following a request from the Indenture Trustee to do so and at the Issuer s expense, the
Issuer agrees to take all such lawful action as permitted under this Indenture as the Indenture
Trustee may request to compel or secure the performance and observance by SPV, the Servicer, the
Administrator, VMS or PHH Consumer Lease or any other party to any of the Transaction Documents of
its obligations thereunder, in each case in accordance with the applicable terms thereof, and to
exercise any and all rights, remedies, powers and privileges lawfully available to the Issuer to
the extent and in the manner directed by the Indenture Trustee, including, without limitation, the
transmission of notices of default and the institution of legal or administrative actions or
proceedings to compel or secure performance by each of SPV, the Servicer, the Administrator, VMS or
PHH Consumer Lease (or such other party to any Transaction Document), of their respective
obligations thereunder. If (i) the Issuer shall have failed, within 30 days of receiving the
direction of the Indenture Trustee, to take commercially reasonable action to accomplish such
directions of the Indenture, (ii) the Issuer refuses to take any such action, or (iii) the
Indenture Trustee reasonably determines that such action must be taken immediately, the Indenture
Trustee may take such previously directed action and any related action permitted under this
Indenture which the Indenture Trustee thereafter determines is appropriate (without the need under
this provision or any other provision under the Indenture to direct the

-20-

Issuer to take such action), on behalf of the Issuer and the Investor Noteholders.

C. Release of Issuer Assets.

1. The Indenture Trustee shall when required by the provisions of this Indenture execute
instruments to release property from the lien of this Indenture, or convey the Indenture Trustee s
interest in the same, in a manner and under circumstances that are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Indenture. No party relying upon an instrument executed by the Indenture
Trustee as provided in this Section 3.2 shall be bound to ascertain the Indenture Trustee s
authority, inquire into the satisfaction of any conditions precedent or see to the application of
any moneys.

2. The Indenture Trustee shall, at such time as there are no Investor Notes Outstanding,
release any remaining portion of the Issuer Assets that secured the Investor Notes from the lien of
this Indenture and release to the Issuer any funds then on deposit in the Issuer Accounts. The
Indenture Trustee shall release property from the lien of this Indenture pursuant to this Section
3.2(b) only upon receipt of an Issuer Order accompanied by an Officer s Certificate, an Opinion of
Counsel and (if this Indenture is qualified under the TIA and the TIA so requires) Independent
Certificates in accordance with TIA Sections 314(c) and 314(d)(1) meeting the applicable
requirements of Section 13.1.

D. Opinions of Counsel.

The Indenture Trustee shall receive at least seven days  notice when requested by the Issuer
to take any action pursuant to Section 3.2(a), accompanied by copies of any instruments involved,
and the Indenture Trustee may also require as a condition of such action, an Opinion of Counsel, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Indenture Trustee, stating the legal effect of any such
action, outlining the steps required to complete the same, and concluding that all such action will
not materially and adversely impair the security for the Investor Notes or the rights of the
Noteholders; provided, however that such Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to express an
opinion as to the fair value of the Issuer Assets. Counsel rendering any such opinion may rely,
without independent investigation, on the accuracy and validity of any certificate or other
instrument delivered to the Indenture Trustee in connection with any such action.

E. Stamp, Other Similar Taxes and Filing Fees.

The Issuer shall indemnify and hold harmless the Indenture Trustee and each Investor
Noteholder from any present or future claim for liability for any stamp or other similar tax and
any penalties or interest

-21-

with respect thereto, that may be assessed, levied or collected by any jurisdiction in
connection with this Indenture or any Collateral. The Issuer shall pay, or reimburse the Indenture
Trustee for, any and all amounts in respect of, all search, filing, recording and registration
fees, taxes, excise taxes and other similar imposts that may be payable or determined to be payable
in respect of the execution, delivery, performance and/or enforcement of this Indenture.

ARTICLE III.

REPORTS

A. Servicer Reports.

The Issuer will deliver or cause to be delivered to the Indenture Trustee:

(i) prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on each Deposit Date, a copy of the
Deposit Report (a  Deposit Report ) prepared and delivered by the Servicer to the Issuer
pursuant to the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, setting forth the aggregate amount
of Collections deposited in the Collection Account on such Deposit Date;

(ii) on each Determination Date, a copy of the Settlement Statement (a  Settlement
Statement ) prepared and delivered by the Servicer to the Issuer pursuant to the
Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, setting forth the information required to be set
forth therein under the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement and each Indenture
Supplement and such other information as the Indenture Trustee may reasonably request;

(iii) within ten Business Days of the last Business Day of each fiscal quarter of the
Issuer, a copy of the Quarterly Compliance Certificate (a  Quarterly Compliance
Certificate ) prepared and delivered by the Servicer pursuant to the Origination Trust
Servicing Agreement, setting forth the information required to be set forth
therein under the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement;

(iv) on or before March 31 of each year, a copy of the Annual Servicing Report (an
 Annual Servicing Report ) prepared by the Servicer s independent auditors in accordance
with the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, setting forth the information
required to be set forth therein under the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement;

(v) within 45 days following the end of each fiscal quarter of the Servicer, a copy
of the certificate prepared and delivered by

-22-

the Servicer pursuant Section 8.3(b) of the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement;

(vi) promptly upon the delivery by the Servicer to the Issuer, a copy of any other
information, reports or other materials required to be delivered by the Servicer to the
Issuer pursuant to the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement;

(vii) from time to time such additional information regarding the financial
position, results of operations or business of the Origination Trust or VMS as the
Indenture Trustee may reasonably request to the extent that the Servicer delivers such
information to the Issuer pursuant to the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement; and

(viii) at the time of delivery of the item described in clause (iii) above, a
certificate of an officer of the Issuer that, except as provided in any certificate
delivered in accordance with Section 8.8, no Amortization Event, Potential Amortization
Event, Termination Event, Default or Event of Default under any of the
Transaction Documents to which it is a party has occurred or is continuing during such
fiscal quarter.

B. Communication to Investor Noteholders.

1. If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, the Investor Noteholders may communicate
pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Investor Noteholders with respect to their rights under
this Indenture or under the Investor Notes.

2. If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and the
Transfer Agent and Registrar shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).

C. Rule 144A Information.

For so long as any of the Investor Notes are  restricted securities  within the meaning of
Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, the Issuer agrees to provide to any Investor Noteholder or
Beneficial Owner and to any prospective purchaser of Investor Notes designated by such Investor
Noteholder or Beneficial Owner upon the request of such Investor Noteholder or Beneficial Owner or
prospective purchaser, any information required to be provided to such holder or prospective
purchaser to satisfy the conditions set forth in Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.

D. Reports by the Issuer.

-23-

1. Unless otherwise specified in the related Indenture
Supplement, on each Settlement Date, the Issuer shall deliver to the
Indenture Trustee or the Paying Agent and the Indenture Trustee or the Paying
Agent, as the case may be, shall forward to each Investor Noteholder of each
Outstanding Series the Monthly Settlement Statement with respect to such
Series, with a copy to the Rating Agencies.

2. As soon as available, but in any event within 90
days after the end of each fiscal year of the Issuer, the Issuer shall
deliver to the Indenture Trustee or the Paying Agent and the Indenture
Trustee or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall forward to each
Investor Noteholder of each Outstanding Series a copy of the audited
financial statements of the Issuer at the end of such year, prepared by
independent certified public accountants of nationally recognized standing.

3. Unless otherwise specified in the related Indenture
Supplement, on or before January 31 of each calendar year, beginning with
calendar year 2000, the Indenture Trustee or the Paying Agent shall furnish
to each Person who at any time during the preceding calendar year was an
Investor Noteholder of a Series of Investor Notes a statement prepared by or
on behalf of the Issuer containing the information which is required to be
contained in the Monthly Settlement Statements with respect to such Series of
Investor Notes aggregated for such calendar year or the applicable portion
thereof during which such Person was an Investor Noteholder, together with
such other customary information (consistent with the treatment of the
Investor Notes as debt) as the Issuer deems necessary or desirable to enable
the Investor Noteholders to prepare their tax returns (each such statement,
an  Annual Noteholders  Tax Statement ). Such obligations of the Issuer to
prepare and the Indenture Trustee or the Paying Agent to distribute the
Annual Noteholders  Tax Statement shall be deemed to have been satisfied to
the extent that substantially comparable information shall be provided by the
Indenture Trustee or the Paying Agent pursuant to any requirements of the
Code as from time to time in effect.

E. Reports by the Indenture Trustee.

If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, within 60 days
after each March 31, beginning on March 31 in the first year after this
Indenture is qualified under the TIA, if required by TIA Section 313(a), the
Indenture Trustee shall mail to each Investor Noteholder as required by TIA
Section 313(c) a brief report dated as of such date that complies with TIA
Section 313(a). The Indenture Trustee also shall comply with TIA
Section 313(b). A copy of such each report at the time of its mailing to
Investor Noteholders shall be filed by the Indenture Trustee with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and each stock exchange, if any, on which
the Investor Notes are listed. The Issuer shall notify the Indenture Trustee
if and when the Investor Notes are listed on any stock exchange.

-24- 

ARTICLE IV.

ALLOCATION AND APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS

A. Collection Account.

1. Establishment of Collection Account. The Indenture
Trustee shall establish and maintain in the name of the Indenture Trustee,
for the benefit of the Noteholders, an Eligible Deposit Account bearing a
designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein are held in
trust for the benefit of the Noteholders (the  Collection Account ). If at
any time the Indenture Trustee obtains knowledge that the Collection Account
is no longer an Eligible Deposit Account, the Indenture Trustee shall,
within 30 days of obtaining such knowledge, establish a new Collection
Account that is an Eligible Deposit Account and transfer into the new
Collection Account all cash and investments from the non-qualifying
Collection Account. Initially, the Collection Account will be established
with Chase. The Indenture Trustee shall possess all right, title and
interest in all moneys, instruments, securities and other property on deposit
from time to time in the Collection Account and the proceeds thereof for the
benefit of the Noteholders. The Collection Account shall be under the sole
dominion and control of the Indenture Trustee for the benefit of the
Noteholders.

2. Series Accounts. If so provided in the related
Indenture Supplement, the Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of the Investor
Noteholders, shall cause to be established and maintained, one or more Series
Accounts and/or administrative sub-accounts of the Collection Account to
facilitate the proper allocation of Collections in accordance with the terms
of such Indenture Supplement. Each such Series Account shall bear a
designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein are held for
the benefit of the Investor Noteholders of such Series. Each such Series
Account will be an Eligible Deposit Account, if so provided in the related
Indenture Supplement and will have the other features and be applied as set
forth in the related Indenture Supplement.

3. Administration of the Collection Account. The
Issuer shall instruct the institution maintaining the Collection Account in
writing to invest the funds on deposit in the Collection Account in Permitted
Investments. Any such investment shall mature and such funds shall be
available for withdrawal on or prior to the Transfer Date related to the
Monthly Period in which such funds were processed for collection, or if so
specified in the related Indenture Supplement, on the immediately succeeding
Payment Date. All such Permitted Investments will be credited to the
Collection Account and any such Permitted Investments that constitute (i)
Physical Property (and that is not either a United States Security

-25- 

Entitlement or a Security Entitlement) shall be delivered to the Indenture
Trustee in accordance with paragraph (a) of the definition of  Delivery  and
shall be held by the Indenture Trustee pending maturity or disposition;
(ii) United States Security Entitlements or Security Entitlements shall be
Controlled by the Indenture Trustee pending maturity or disposition; and
(iii) Uncertificated Securities (and not United States Security Entitlements)
shall be delivered to the Indenture Trustee in accordance with paragraph (b)
of the definition of  Delivery  and shall be maintained by the Indenture
Trustee pending maturity or disposition. The Indenture Trustee shall take
such action as is required to maintain the Indenture Trustee s security
interest in the Permitted Investments credited to the Collection Account. In
the absence of written investment instructions hereunder, funds on deposit in
the Collection Account shall remain uninvested. Neither the Issuer nor the
Indenture Trustee shall dispose of (or permit the disposal of) any Permitted
Investments prior to the maturity thereof to the extent such disposal would
result in a loss of principal of such Permitted Investment.

B. Gain on Sale Account.

1. Establishment of Gain on Sale Account. The Indenture
Trustee shall establish and maintain in the name of the Indenture Trustee,
for the benefit of the Noteholders, an Eligible Deposit Account bearing a
designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein are held in
trust for the benefit of the Noteholders (the  Gain on Sale Account ). If at
any time the Indenture Trustee obtains knowledge that the Gain on Sale
Account is no longer an Eligible Deposit Account, the Indenture Trustee
shall, within 30 days of obtaining such knowledge, establish a new Gain on
Sale Account that is an Eligible Deposit Account and transfer into the new
Gain on Sale Account all cash and investments from the non-qualifying Gain on
Sale Account. Initially, the Gain on Sale Account will be established with
Chase. The Indenture Trustee shall possess all right, title and interest in
all moneys, instruments, securities and other property on deposit from time
to time in the Gain on Sale Account and the proceeds thereof for the benefit
of the Noteholders. The Gain on Sale Account shall be under the sole
dominion and control of the Indenture Trustee for the benefit of the
Noteholders.

2. Investment of Funds in the Gain on Sale Account.
The Issuer shall instruct the institution maintaining the Gain on Sale
Account in writing to invest the funds on deposit in the Gain on Sale Account
in Permitted Investments. Any such investment shall mature and such funds
shall be available for withdrawal on or prior to each Transfer Date. All
such Permitted Investments will be credited to the Gain on Sale Account and
any such Permitted Investments that constitute (i) Physical Property (and
that is not either a United States Security Entitlement or a Security
Entitlement) shall be delivered to the Indenture Trustee in accordance with
paragraph (a) of the definition of  Delivery  and shall be held by the

-26- 

Indenture Trustee pending maturity or disposition; (ii) United States
Security Entitlements or Security Entitlements shall be Controlled by the
Indenture Trustee pending maturity or disposition; and (iii) Uncertificated
Securities (and not United States Security Entitlements) shall be delivered
to the Indenture Trustee in accordance with paragraph (b) of the definition
of  Delivery  and shall be maintained by the Indenture Trustee pending
maturity or disposition. The Indenture Trustee shall take such action as is
required to maintain the Indenture Trustee s security interest in the
Permitted Investments credited to the Gain on Sale Account. In the absence
of written investment instructions hereunder, funds on deposit in the Gain on
Sale Account shall remain uninvested. Neither the Issuer nor the Indenture
Trustee shall dispose of (or permit the disposal of) any Permitted
Investments prior to the maturity thereof to the extent such disposal would
result in a loss of principal of such Permitted Investment.

3. Earnings from Gain on Sale Account. All interest
and earnings (net of losses and investment expenses) paid on funds on deposit
in the Gain on Sale Account shall be deemed to be available and on deposit
for distribution.

4. Deposits to Gain on Sale Account. Amounts will be
deposited in the Gain on Sale Account in accordance with this Article 5, as
modified by any Indenture Supplement.

5. Withdrawals from Gain on Sale Account. No later
than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on each Transfer Date, the Issuer shall
direct the Indenture Trustee in writing to withdraw from the Gain on Sale
Account an amount equal to the lesser of (x) the Monthly Residual Value Loss
for the immediately preceding Monthly Period and (y) the amount then on
deposit in the Gain on Sale Account and deposit such amount into the
Collection Account for allocation in accordance with Article 5, as modified
by any Indenture Supplement. On any Transfer Date on which the amount on
deposit in the Gain on Sale Account (after giving effect to any withdrawals
therefrom pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence) is greater than an
amount equal to the Applicable Gain on Sale Account Percentage of the sum of
the aggregate Lease Balance of each Eligible Lease that is a Closed-End Lease
allocated to the Lease SUBI as of last day of the Monthly Period immediately
preceding such Transfer Date and the Aggregate Residual Value Amount as of
such date, the Issuer shall direct the Indenture Trustee in writing to
withdraw such excess from the Gain on Sale Account and deposit it in the
Issuer General Account.

C. Collection of Money.

Except as otherwise provided herein, the Indenture Trustee
may demand payment or delivery of, and shall receive and collect, directly
and without intervention or assistance of any fiscal agent or other

-27- 

intermediary, all money and other property payable to or receivable by the
Indenture Trustee pursuant to this Indenture. The Indenture Trustee shall
apply all such money received by it as provided in this Indenture. Except as
otherwise provided in this Indenture, if any default occurs in the making of
any payment or performance under any agreement or instrument that is part of
the Issuer Assets, the Indenture Trustee may take such action as may be
appropriate to enforce such payment or performance, including the institution
and prosecution of appropriate proceedings. Any such action shall be without
prejudice to any right to claim a Default or Event of Default under this
Indenture and any right to proceeds thereafter as provided in Article 9.

D. Collections and Allocations.

1. Collections in General. Until this Indenture is
terminated pursuant to Section 11.1, the Issuer shall, and the Indenture
Trustee is authorized to, cause all Collections due and to become due to the
Issuer or the Indenture Trustee, as the case may be, under or in connection
with the Collateral to be paid directly to the Indenture Trustee for deposit
into the Collection Account. The Issuer agrees that if any Collections shall
be received by the Issuer in an account other than the Collection Account,
such monies, instruments, cash and other proceeds will not be commingled by
the Issuer with any of its other funds or property, if any, but will be held
separate and apart therefrom and shall be held in trust by the Issuer for,
and immediately remitted to, the Indenture Trustee, with any necessary
endorsement. All monies, instruments, cash and other proceeds received by
the Indenture Trustee pursuant to this Indenture shall be in immediately
available funds and shall be immediately deposited in the Collection Account
and shall be applied as provided in this Article 5.

2. Allocations for Investor Noteholders. On each
Deposit Date, the Issuer shall allocate Collections deposited into the
Collection Account in accordance with this Article 5 and shall instruct the
Indenture Trustee to withdraw the required amounts from the Collection
Account and make the required deposits in any Series Account in accordance
with this Article 5, as modified by any Indenture Supplement. The Issuer
shall make such deposits or payments on the date indicated therein in
immediately available funds or as otherwise provided in the Indenture
Supplement for any Series with respect to such Series. The Administrator, on
behalf of the Issuer, has agreed to furnish to the Indenture Trustee or the
Paying Agent, as applicable, written instructions to make the aforementioned
withdrawals and payments from the Collection Account and any Issuer Accounts
specified herein or in an Indenture Supplement. The Indenture Trustee and
the Paying Agent shall promptly follow any such written instructions.

3. Sharing Collections. In the manner described in the
related Indenture Supplement, to the extent that Collections that are
allocated to any Series on a Deposit Date are not needed to make payments to

-28- 

Investor Noteholders of such Series or required to be deposited in a Series
Account for such Series on such Deposit Date, such Collections may, at the
direction of the Issuer, be applied to cover principal payments due to or for
the benefit of Investor Noteholders of another Series. Any such reallocation
will not result in a reduction in the Invested Amount of the Series to which
such Collections were initially allocated.

4. Allocations After Certain Events of Default. After
each Outstanding Series of Investor Notes shall have been declared to be
immediately due and payable pursuant to Section 9.2 as a result of the
occurrence of an Event of Default defined in clause (a) or (b) of Section
9.1, to the extent that Collections that are allocated to any Series of
Investor Notes on a Settlement Date are not needed to make payments of
principal of, or interest on, the Investor Notes of such Series, such
Collections shall be applied to cover principal payments due on the Investor
Notes of all other Series then Outstanding on a pro rata basis based on the
Invested Percentages of such other Series of Investor Notes.

THE REMAINDER OF ARTICLE 5 IS RESERVED AND MAY BE SPECIFIED IN ANY INDENTURE
SUPPLEMENT WITH RESPECT TO ANY SERIES. 

ARTICLE V.

DISTRIBUTIONS

A. Distributions in General.

1. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Indenture
Supplement, amounts payable to an Investor Noteholder hereunder shall be
payable by check mailed first-class postage prepaid to such Investor
Noteholder at the address for such Investor Noteholder appearing in the Note
Register except that with respect to Investor Notes registered in the name of
a Clearing Agency or its nominee, such amounts shall be payable by wire
transfer of immediately available funds released by the Indenture Trustee or
the Paying Agent from the applicable Series Account no later than Noon on the
Payment Date (New York City time) for credit to the account designated by
such Clearing Agency or its nominee, as applicable.

2. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable
Indenture Supplement (i) all distributions to Investor Noteholders of all
classes within a Series of Investor Notes will have the same priority and
(ii) in the event that on any date of determination the amount available to
make payments to the Investor Noteholders of a Series is not sufficient to
pay all sums required to be paid to such Investor Noteholders on such date,
then each class of Investor Noteholders will receive its ratable share (based

-29- 

upon the aggregate amount due to such class of Investor Noteholders) of the
aggregate amount available to be distributed in respect of the Investor Notes
of such Series.

B. Optional Repurchase of Investor Notes.

On any Payment Date occurring on or after the date on which
the Invested Amount of any Series or class of such Series is equal to or less
than the Repurchase Amount (if any) for such Series or class set forth in the
Indenture Supplement related to such Series, or at such other time otherwise
provided for in the Indenture Supplement relating to such Series, the Issuer
shall have the option to purchase all Outstanding Investor Notes of such
Series, or class of such Series, at a purchase price (determined after giving
effect to any payment of principal and interest on such Payment Date) equal
to (unless otherwise specified in the related Indenture Supplement) the
Invested Amount of such Series on such Payment Date, plus accrued and unpaid
interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Investor Notes of such Series
(calculated at the Investor Note Rate of such Series) through the day
immediately prior to the date of such purchase plus, if provided for in the
related Indenture Supplement, any premium payable at such time. The Issuer
shall give the Indenture Trustee at least 30 days  prior written notice of
the date on which the Issuer intends to exercise such option to purchase.
Not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on such Payment Date, an
amount of the purchase price equal to the Invested Amount of all Investor
Notes of such Series on such Payment Date and the amount of accrued and
unpaid interest with respect to such Investor Notes and any applicable
premium will be deposited into the applicable Series Account for such Series
in immediately available funds. The funds deposited into such Series Account
or distributed to the Paying Agent will be passed through in full to the
Investor Noteholders on such Payment Date.

ARTICLE VI.

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

The Issuer hereby represents and warrants, for the benefit
of the Indenture Trustee and the Noteholders, as follows as of each Series
Closing Date:

A. Existence and Power.

The Issuer (a) is a special purpose limited liability
company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of
the State of Delaware, (b) is duly qualified to do business as a foreign
limited liability company and in good standing under the laws of each
jurisdiction where the character of its property, the nature of its business

-30- 

or the performance of its obligations make such qualification necessary, and
(c) has all powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents
and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted and for
purposes of the transactions contemplated by this Indenture and the other
Transaction Documents.

B. Governmental Authorization.

The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of
this Indenture, the related Indenture Supplement and the other Transaction
Documents to which it is a party (a) is within the Issuer s power, has been
duly authorized by all necessary action, (b) requires no action by or in
respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official which
has not been obtained and (c) does not contravene, or constitute a default
under, any Requirement of Law or any provision of its certificate of
formation or the LLC Agreement or result in the creation or imposition of any
Lien on any of the Issuer Assets, except for Liens created by this Indenture
or the other Transaction Documents. This Indenture and each of the other
Transaction Documents to which the Issuer is a party has been executed and
delivered by a duly authorized officer of the Issuer.

C. Binding Effect.

This Indenture and each other Transaction Document is a
legal, valid and binding obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the
Issuer in accordance with its terms (except as such enforceability may be
limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization,
moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors  rights generally or by
general equitable principles, whether considered in a proceeding at law or in
equity and by an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing).

D. Financial Information; Financial Condition.

All balance sheets, all statements of operations, of
shareholders  equity and of cash flow, and other financial data (other than
projections) which have been or shall hereafter be furnished by the Issuer to
the Indenture Trustee and the Rating Agencies pursuant to Section 4.4 have
been and will be prepared in accordance with GAAP (to the extent applicable)
and do and will present fairly the financial condition of the Issuer as of
the dates thereof and the results of its operations for the periods covered
thereby, subject, in the case of all unaudited statements, to normal year-end
adjustments and lack of footnotes and presentation items.

E. Litigation.

There is no action, suit or proceeding pending against or,
to the knowledge of the Issuer, threatened against or affecting the Issuer

-31- 

before any court or arbitrator or any Governmental Authority that could
materially adversely affect the financial position, results of operations,
business, properties, performance, prospects or condition (financial or
otherwise) of the Issuer or which in any manner draws into question the
validity or enforceability of this Indenture, any Indenture Supplement or any
other Transaction Document or the ability of the Issuer to perform its
obligations hereunder or thereunder.

F. No ERISA Plan.

The Issuer has not established and does not maintain or
contribute to any Pension Plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA and will
not do so, as long as any Investor Notes are Outstanding.

G. Tax Filings and Expenses.

The Issuer has filed all federal, state and local tax
returns and all other tax returns which, to the knowledge of the Issuer, are
required to be filed (whether informational returns or not), and has paid all
taxes due, if any, pursuant to said returns or pursuant to any assessment
received by the Issuer, except such taxes, if any, as are being contested in
good faith and for which adequate reserves have been set aside on its books.
The Issuer has paid all fees and expenses required to be paid by it in
connection with the conduct of its business, the maintenance of its existence
and its qualification as a foreign limited liability company authorized to do
business in each State in which it is required to so qualify.

H. Disclosure.

All certificates, reports, statements, documents and other
information furnished to the Indenture Trustee by or on behalf of the Issuer
pursuant to any provision of this Indenture or any Transaction Document, or
in connection with or pursuant to any amendment or modification of, or waiver
under, this Indenture or any Transaction Document, shall, at the time the
same are so furnished, be complete and correct to the extent necessary to
give the Indenture Trustee true and accurate knowledge of the subject matter
thereof in all material respects, and the furnishing of the same to the
Indenture Trustee shall constitute a representation and warranty by the
Issuer made on the date the same are furnished to the Indenture Trustee to
the effect specified herein.

I. Investment Company Act.

The Issuer is not, and is not controlled by, an  investment
company  within the meaning of, and is not required to register as an
 investment company  under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.

-32- 

J. Regulations T, U and X.

The proceeds of the Investor Notes will not be used to
purchase or carry any  margin stock  (as defined or used in the regulations
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, including
Regulations T, U and X thereof). The Issuer is not engaged in the business
of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin
stock.

K. No Consent.

No consent, action by or in respect of, approval or other
authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any
Governmental Authority or other Person is required for the valid execution
and delivery of this Indenture or any Indenture Supplement or for the
performance of any of the Issuer s obligations hereunder or thereunder or
under any other Transaction Document other than such consents, approvals,
authorizations, registrations, declarations or filings as shall have been
obtained by the Issuer prior to the Initial Closing Date or as contemplated
in Section 7.13.

L. Solvency.

Both before and after giving effect to the transactions
contemplated by this Indenture and the other Transaction Documents, the
Issuer is solvent within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Code and the Issuer is
not the subject of any voluntary or involuntary case or proceeding seeking
liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to itself or its
debts under any bankruptcy or insolvency law and no Insolvency Event has
occurred with respect to the Issuer.

M. Security Interests.

1. Each of the SUBI Certificates has been duly
registered in the name of the Indenture Trustee and all other action
necessary (including the filing of UCC-1 financing statements) to protect and
perfect the Indenture Trustee s security interest in the Collateral now in
existence and hereafter acquired or created has been duly and effectively
taken.

2. No security agreement, financing statement,
equivalent security or lien instrument or continuation statement listing the
Issuer as debtor covering all or any part of the Collateral is on file or of
record in any jurisdiction, except such as may have been filed, recorded or
made by the Issuer in favor of the Indenture Trustee on behalf of the
Noteholders in connection with this Indenture.

-33- 

3. This Indenture constitutes a valid and continuing
Lien on the Collateral in favor of the Indenture Trustee on behalf of the
Noteholders, which Lien will be prior to all other Liens (other than
Permitted Liens), will be enforceable as such as against creditors of and
purchasers from the Issuer in accordance with its terms, except as such
enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent
conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting
creditors  rights generally or by general equitable principles, whether
considered in a proceeding at law or in equity and by an implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. All action necessary to perfect such prior
security interest has been duly taken.

4. Except for a change made pursuant to Section 8.19,
the Issuer s principal place of business and chief executive office shall be
at: 900 Old Country Road, Garden City, New York 11530, and the place where
its records concerning the Collateral are kept is at: 103 Foulk Road, Suite
205-11, Wilmington, Delaware 19803. The Issuer does not transact, and has
not transacted, business under any other name.

5. All authorizations in this Indenture for the
Indenture Trustee to endorse checks, instruments and securities and to
execute financing statements, continuation statements, security agreements,
and other instruments with respect to the Collateral are powers coupled with
an interest and are irrevocable.

N. Binding Effect of Certain Agreements.

Each of the Origination Trust Documents and the Transfer
Agreement is in full force and effect and there are no outstanding events of
default thereunder nor have events occurred which, with the giving of notice,
the passage of time or both, would constitute such an event of default.

O. Non-Existence of Other Agreements.

1. Other than as permitted by Section 8.23, (i) the Issuer
is not a party to any contract or agreement of any kind or nature and (ii)
the Issuer is not subject to any obligations or liabilities of any kind or
nature in favor of any third party, including, without limitation, Contingent
Obligations.

2. The Issuer has not engaged in any activities since its
formation (other than those incidental to its formation and other appropriate
actions including the proposed purchase of the SUBI Certificates, the
authorization and the issue of the initial Series of Notes, the execution of
the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and the performance of the
activities referred to in or contemplated by such agreements).

-34- 

Section P. Compliance with Contractual Obligations and
Laws.

The Issuer is not (i) in violation of the LLC Agreement,
(ii) in violation of any Requirement of Law to which it or its property or
assets may be subject or (iii) in violation of any Contractual Obligation
with respect to the Issuer.

Q. Other Representations.

All representations and warranties of the Issuer made in
each Transaction Document to which it is a party are true and correct and are
repeated herein as though fully set forth herein.

ARTICLE VII.

COVENANTS

A. Payment of Investor Notes.

The Issuer shall pay the principal of (and premium, if any)
and interest on the Investor Notes pursuant to the provisions of this
Indenture and any applicable Indenture Supplement. Principal and interest
shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent holds on that
date money designated for and sufficient to pay all principal and interest
then due.

B. Maintenance of Office or Agency.

The Issuer will maintain in The City of New York, an office
or agency where Investor Notes may be surrendered for registration of
transfer or exchange. The Issuer hereby initially appoints the Transfer
Agent and Registrar to serve as its agent for the foregoing purposes. The
Issuer will give prompt written notice to the Indenture Trustee of the
location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency.
If at any time the Issuer shall fail to maintain any such office or agency or
shall fail to furnish the Indenture Trustee with the address thereof, such
surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust
Office, and the Issuer hereby appoints the Indenture Trustee as its agent to
receive all such surrenders, notices and demands.

The Issuer may also from time to time designate one or more
other offices or agencies where the Investor Notes may be presented or
surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind
such designations. The Issuer will give prompt written notice to the

-35- 

Indenture Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in
the location of any such other office or agency.

The Issuer hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of
the Indenture Trustee as one such office or agency of the Issuer.

C. Payment of Obligations.

The Issuer will pay and discharge, at or before maturity,
all of its respective material obligations and liabilities, including,
without limitation, tax liabilities and other governmental claims, except
where the same may be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, and
will maintain, in accordance with GAAP, reserves as appropriate for the
accrual of any of the same.

D. Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence.

The Issuer will keep in full effect its existence, rights
and franchises as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of
Delaware and will obtain and preserve its qualification to do business in
each jurisdiction in which the failure to so qualify would have a material
adverse effect on the business and operations of the Issuer or which
qualification shall be necessary to protect the validity and enforceability
of this Indenture, the Investor Notes and any instrument or agreement
included in the Issuer Assets.

E. Compliance with Laws.

The Issuer will comply in all respects with all Requirements
of Law and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and
requirements of Governmental Authorities (including, without limitation,
ERISA and the rules and regulations thereunder) except where the necessity of
compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings
and where such noncompliance would not materially and adversely affect the
condition, financial or otherwise, operations, performance, properties or
prospects of the Issuer or its ability to carry out the transactions
contemplated in this Indenture and each other Transaction Document; provided,
however, such noncompliance will not result in a Lien (other than a Permitted
Lien) on any Issuer Asset.

F. Inspection of Property, Books and Records.

The Issuer will keep proper books of record and account in
which full, true and correct entries shall be made of all dealings and
transactions in relation to the Issuer Assets and its business activities in
accordance with GAAP; and will permit the Indenture Trustee to visit and
inspect any of its properties, to examine and make abstracts from any of its

-36- 

books and records and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its
officers, directors, employees and independent public accountants, all at
such reasonable times upon reasonable notice and as often as may reasonably
be requested.

G. Compliance with Transaction Documents; Issuer Assets.

1. The Issuer will not take any action and will use its
best efforts not to permit any action to be taken by others that would
release any Person from any of such Person s covenants or obligations under
any instrument or agreement included in the Issuer Assets or that would
result in the amendment, hypothecation, subordination, termination or
discharge of, or impair the validity or effectiveness of, any such instrument
or agreement, except as expressly provided in this Indenture, any other
Transaction Document or such other instrument or agreement.

2. Promptly upon becoming aware of any default under
any Transaction Document, the Issuer shall give the Indenture Trustee and the Rating Agencies notice thereof.

3. The Issuer will punctually perform and observe all of
its obligations and agreements contained in this Indenture, the other
Transaction Documents and in the instruments and agreements included in the
Issuer Assets, including but not limited to preparing (or causing to be
prepared) and filing (or causing to be filed) all UCC financing statements
and continuation statements required to be filed by the terms of this
Indenture and the Transfer Agreement in accordance with and within the time
periods provided for herein and therein.

4. Without derogating from the absolute nature of the
assignment granted to the Indenture Trustee under this Indenture or the
rights of the Indenture Trustee hereunder, the Issuer agrees that, unless
such action is specifically permitted hereunder or under the other
Transaction Documents, it will not, without the prior written consent of the
Indenture Trustee or the Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of
Outstanding Notes, amend, modify, waive, supplement, terminate or surrender,
or agree to any amendment, modification, supplement, termination, waiver or
surrender of, the terms of any of the Issuer Assets, including any of the
Transaction Documents, or waive timely performance or observance by SPV under
the Transfer Agreement or the Origination Trust, VMS or the Servicer under
the Origination Trust Documents. Upon the occurrence of a Servicer
Termination Event, the Issuer will not, without the prior written consent of
the Indenture Trustee or the Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series
of Outstanding Notes, terminate the Servicer and appoint a successor Servicer
in accordance with the Servicing Agreement and will terminate the Servicer
and appoint a successor Servicer in accordance with the Servicing Agreement

-37- 

if so directed by the Indenture Trustee or the Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of Outstanding Notes.

5. The Issuer may contract with other Persons to assist it
in performing its duties under this Indenture, and any performance of such
duties by a Person identified to the Indenture Trustee in an Officer s
Certificate of the Issuer shall be deemed to be action taken by the Issuer.
Initially, the Issuer has contracted with the Administrator to assist the
Issuer in performing its duties under this Indenture.

H. Notice of Defaults.

Promptly upon becoming aware of any Potential Amortization
Event, Amortization Event, Potential Termination Event, Termination Event,
Servicer Termination Event, Event of Default or Default under any of the
Transaction Documents, the Issuer shall give the Indenture Trustee and the
Rating Agencies written notice thereof, together with an Officer s
Certificate, setting forth the details thereof and any action with respect
thereto taken or contemplated to be taken by the Issuer.

I. Notice of Material Proceedings.

Promptly upon becoming aware thereof, the Issuer shall give
the Indenture Trustee and the Rating Agencies written notice of the
commencement or existence of any proceeding by or before any Governmental
Authority against or affecting the Issuer which is reasonably likely to have
a material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or
otherwise), results of operations, properties or performance of the Issuer or
the ability of the Issuer to perform its obligations under this Indenture or
under any other Transaction Document to which it is a party.

J. Further Requests.

The Issuer will promptly furnish to the Indenture Trustee
and the Rating Agencies such other information as, and in such form as, the
Indenture Trustee or the Rating Agencies may reasonably request in connection
with the transactions contemplated hereby.

K. Protection of Issuer Assets.

The Issuer will from time to time prepare (or shall cause to
be prepared), execute and deliver all such supplements and amendments hereto
and all such financing statements, continuation statements, instruments of
further assurance and other instruments, and will take such other action
necessary or advisable to:

-38- 

1. maintain or preserve the lien and security interest (and
the priority thereof) of this Indenture or carry out more effectively
the purposes hereof;

2. perfect, publish notice of or protect the validity of
the lien and security interest created by this Indenture;

3. enforce the rights of the Indenture Trustee and the
Noteholders in any of the Issuer Assets; or

4. preserve and defend title to the Issuer Assets and the
rights of the Indenture Trustee and the Noteholders in such Issuer
Assets against the claims of all persons and parties.

The Issuer hereby designates the Indenture Trustee its agent
and attorney-in-fact to execute any financing statement, continuation
statement or other instrument required to be filed by the Indenture Trustee
pursuant to this Section.

L. Annual Opinion of Counsel.

On or before March 31 of each calendar year, commencing with
March 31, 2000, the Issuer shall furnish to the Indenture Trustee an Opinion
of Counsel either stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, such action
has been taken with respect to the recording, filing, re-recording and
refiling of this Indenture, any indentures supplemental hereto and any other
requisite documents and with respect to the execution and filing of any
financing statements and continuation statements as are necessary to maintain
the perfection of the lien and security interest created by this Indenture
and reciting the details of such action or stating that in the opinion of
such counsel no such action is necessary to maintain the perfection of such
lien and security interest. Such Opinion of Counsel shall also describe the
recording, filing, re-recording and refiling of this Indenture, any
indentures supplemental hereto and any other requisite documents and the
execution and filing of any financing statements and continuation statements
that will, in the opinion of such counsel, be required to maintain the
perfection of the lien and security interest of this Indenture until March 31
in the following calendar year.

M. Liens.

The Issuer will not create, incur, assume or permit to exist
any Lien upon any of the Issuer Assets (including the Collateral), other than
Permitted Liens.

N. Other Indebtedness.

-39- 

The Issuer will not create, assume, incur, suffer to exist
or otherwise become or remain liable in respect of any Indebtedness other
than (i) Indebtedness hereunder and (ii) Indebtedness permitted under any
other Transaction Document.

O. Mergers.

The Issuer will not merge or consolidate with or into any
other Person.

P. Sales of Issuer Assets.

The Issuer will not sell, lease, transfer, liquidate or
otherwise dispose of any Issuer Assets, except as contemplated by the
Transaction Documents unless directed to do so by the Indenture Trustee.

Q. Acquisition of Assets.

The Issuer will not acquire, by long-term or operating lease
or otherwise, any assets except in accordance with the terms of the
Transaction Documents.

R. Distributions.

The Issuer will not declare any dividends on any of the
Membership Interests or make any purchase, redemption or other acquisition
of, any of the Membership Interests, other than as provided in the
Transaction Documents. The Issuer will not redeem any Preferred Membership
Interests if any such redemption would result in the occurrence of an
Amortization Event with respect to any Series of Investor Notes Outstanding.

S. Name; Principal Office.

The Issuer will neither (a) change the location of its chief
executive office or principal place of business (within the meaning of the
applicable UCC) without sixty (60) days  prior written notice to the
Indenture Trustee nor (b) change its name without prior written notice to the
Indenture Trustee sufficient to allow the Indenture Trustee to execute all
filings prepared by the Issuer (including filings of financing statements on
form UCC-1) and recordings necessary to maintain the perfection of the
interest of the Indenture Trustee on behalf of the Noteholders in the
Collateral pursuant to this Indenture. In the event that the Issuer desires
to so change its office or change its name, the Issuer will make any required
filings and prior to actually changing its office or its name the Issuer will
deliver to the Indenture Trustee (i) an Officer s Certificate and (except
with respect to a change of the location of the Issuer s chief executive
office or principal place of business to a new location in the same county)

-40- 

an Opinion of Counsel confirming that all required filings have been made to
continue the perfected interest of the Indenture Trustee on behalf of the
Noteholders in the Collateral in respect of the new office or new name of the
Issuer and (ii) copies of all such required filings with the filing
information duly noted thereon by the office in which such filings were made.

T. Organizational Documents.

The Issuer will not amend the LLC Agreement unless, prior to
such amendment, each Rating Agency confirms that after such amendment the
Rating Agency Condition will be met.

U. Investments.

The Issuer will not make, incur, or suffer to exist any
loan, advance, extension of credit or other investment in any Person other
than in accordance with the Transaction Documents and, in addition, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Issuer will not cause the
Indenture Trustee to make any Permitted Investments on the Issuer s behalf
that would have the effect of causing the Issuer to be an  investment
company  within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.

V. No Other Agreements.

The Issuer will not enter into or be a party to any
agreement or instrument other than any Transaction Document or documents and
agreements incidental thereto.

W. Other Business.

The Issuer will not engage in any business or enterprise or
enter into any transaction other than acquiring the SUBI Certificates
pursuant to the Transfer Agreement, funding such acquisitions through the
issuance and sale of the Investor Notes, issuing the Membership Interests
pursuant to the LLC Agreement, incurring and paying ordinary course operating
expenses and other activities related to or incidental to any of the
foregoing.

X. Maintenance of Separate Existence.

The Issuer will do all things necessary to continue to be
readily distinguishable from VMS, ARAC and the Affiliates of each of the
foregoing and maintain its existence separate and apart from that of VMS,
ARAC and the Affiliates of each of the foregoing including, without
limitation:

-41- 

a. practicing and adhering to organizational
formalities, such as maintaining appropriate books and records;

b. observing all organizational formalities in
connection with all dealings between itself and VMS, ARAC and the
Affiliates of each of the foregoing or any other unaffiliated entity;

c. observing all procedures required by its certificate
of formation and the LLC Agreement and the laws of the State of
Delaware;

d. acting solely in its name and through its duly
authorized officers or agents in the conduct of its businesses;

e. managing its business and affairs by or under the
direction of the Managers;

f. ensuring that its Authorized Officers duly authorize
all of its actions;

g. ensuring the receipt of proper authorization, when
necessary, in accordance with the terms of the LLC Agreement for its
actions;

h. owning or leasing (including through shared
arrangements with Affiliates) all office furniture and equipment
necessary to operate its business;

i. maintaining at least one Manager who is an
Independent Manager;

j. not (A) having or incurring any indebtedness to VMS,
ARAC or any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC; (B) guaranteeing or otherwise
becoming liable for any obligations of VMS, ARAC or any Affiliates of
VMS or ARAC; (C) having obligations guaranteed by VMS, ARAC or any
Affiliates of VMS or ARAC; (D) holding itself out as responsible for
debts of VMS, ARAC or any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC or for decisions
or actions with respect to the affairs of VMS, ARAC or any Affiliates
of VMS or ARAC; (E) operating or purporting to operate as an
integrated, single economic unit with respect to VMS or ARAC or any
Affiliates of VMS or ARAC or any other unaffiliated entity; (F)
seeking to obtain credit or incur any obligation to any third party
based upon the assets of VMS or ARAC or any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC
or any other unaffiliated entity; (G) induce any such third party to
reasonably rely on the creditworthiness of VMS or ARAC or any
Affiliates of VMS or ARAC or any other unaffiliated entity; and (H)

-42- 

being directly or indirectly named as a direct or contingent
beneficiary or loss payee on any insurance policy of VMS, ARAC or any
Affiliates of VMS or ARAC other than as required by the Transaction
Documents with respect to insurance on the Leased Vehicles;

k. other than as provided in the Transaction Documents,
maintaining its deposit and other bank accounts and all of its assets
separate from those of any other Person;

l. maintaining its financial records separate and apart
from those of any other Person;

m. not suggesting in any way, within its financial
statements, that its assets are available to pay the claims of
creditors of VMS, ARAC, any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC or any other
affiliated or unaffiliated entity;

n. compensating all its employees, officers,
consultants and agents for services provided to it by such Persons
out of its own funds or reimbursing any of its Affiliates in respect
of amounts paid by such Affiliates for such services;

o. maintaining office space separate and apart from
that of VMS or ARAC or any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC (even if such
office space is subleased from or is on or near premises occupied by
VMS, ARAC or any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC) and a telephone number
separate and apart from that of VMS or ARAC or any Affiliates of VMS
or ARAC;

p. conducting all oral and written communications,
including, without limitation, letters, invoices, purchase orders,
contracts, statements, and applications solely in its own name;

q. having separate stationery from VMS, ARAC, any
Affiliates of VMS or ARAC or any other unaffiliated entity;

r. accounting for and managing all of its liabilities
separately from those of VMS, ARAC or any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC;

s. allocating, on an arm s length basis, all shared
corporate operating services, leases and expenses, including, without
limitation, those associated with the services of shared consultants
and agents and shared computer and other office equipment and
software; and otherwise maintaining an arm s-length relationship with
each of VMS, ARAC, any Affiliates of VMS or ARAC or any other
unaffiliated entity;

-43- 

t. refraining from filing or otherwise initiating or
supporting the filing of a motion in any bankruptcy or other
insolvency proceeding involving VMS, ARAC or any Affiliate of VMS or
ARAC to substantively consolidate VMS, ARAC or any Affiliate of VMS
or ARAC with the Issuer;

u. remaining solvent; and

v. conducting all of its business (whether written or
oral) solely in its own name so as not to mislead others as to the
identity of each of the Issuer, SPV, VMS, ARAC and any Affiliates of
VMS or ARAC.

Y. Use of Proceeds of Investor Notes.

The Issuer shall use the net proceeds of each Series of
Investor Notes in accordance with the provisions of the related Indenture
Supplement.

Section Z. No ERISA Plan.

The Issuer will not establish or maintain or contribute to
any Pension Plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA.

ARTICLE VIII.

REMEDIES

A. Events of Default.

Event of Default , wherever used herein, with respect to
any Series of Investor Notes, means any one of the following events (whatever
the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or
involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment,
decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any
administrative or governmental body):

1. default in the payment of any interest on any Investor
Note of any Series when the same becomes due and payable, and such
default shall continue for a period of five Business Days;

2. default in the payment of the principal of any Investor
Note of any Series on the Series Termination Date with respect to
such Series;

-44- 

3. default in the observance or performance of any covenant
or agreement of the Issuer made in this Indenture (other than a
covenant or agreement, a default in the observance or performance of
which is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with) which
default materially and adversely affects the rights of the Investor
Noteholders of such Series, and which default shall continue or not
be cured for a period of 30 days (or for such longer period, not in
excess of 60 days, as may be reasonably necessary to remedy such
default; provided that such default is capable of remedy within 60
days or less and the Issuer delivers an Officer s Certificate to the
Indenture Trustee to the effect that the Issuer has commenced, or
will promptly commence and diligently pursue, all reasonable efforts
to remedy such default) after there shall have been given, by
registered or certified mail, to the Issuer by the Indenture Trustee
or to the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee by Investor Noteholders of
such Series holding Investor Notes evidencing at least 25% of the
Invested Amount of each Class of Investor Notes of such Series, a
written notice specifying such default and requiring it to be
remedied and stating that such notice is a  Notice of Default 
hereunder;

4. the Issuer at any time receives a final determination
that it will be treated as an association taxable as a corporation
for federal income tax purposes;

5. the Securities and Exchange Commission or other
regulatory body having jurisdiction reaches a final determination
that the Issuer is an  investment company  within the meaning of the
Investment Company Act; or

6. an Insolvency Event shall have occurred with respect to
the Issuer.

B. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.

If an Event of Default referred to in clause (f) of Section
9.2 has occurred, the unpaid principal amount of all Series of Investor
Notes, together with interest accrued but unpaid thereon, and all other
amounts due to the Investor Noteholders under this Indenture, shall
immediately and without further act become due and payable. If an Event of
Default referred to in clause (a), (b), (d) or (e) of Section 9.1 has
occurred, then the Indenture Trustee or the Holders of a Majority in Interest
of each Series of Outstanding Investor Notes may declare all of the Investor
Notes to be immediately due and payable, by a notice in writing to the Issuer
(and to the Indenture Trustee if given by the Investor Noteholders), and upon
any such declaration the unpaid principal amount of the Investor Notes,
together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon through the date of

-45- 

acceleration, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of
Default referred to in clause (c) of Section 9.1 shall occur and be
continuing with respect to any Series of Investor Notes, then and in every
such case the Indenture Trustee or Holders of a Majority in Interest of such
Series of Investor Notes may declare all the Investor Notes of such Series to
be immediately due and payable, by a notice in writing to the Issuer (and to
the Indenture Trustee if given by the Investor Noteholders), and upon any
such declaration the unpaid principal amount of such Investor Notes, together
with accrued and unpaid interest thereon through the date of acceleration,
shall become immediately due and payable.

At any time after such declaration of acceleration of
maturity has been made with respect to the Investor Notes (or a particular
Series of Investor Notes) and before a judgment or decree for payment of the
money due has been obtained by the Indenture Trustee as hereinafter in this
Article 9, provided, the Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of
Outstanding Investor Notes (or, in the case of the acceleration of a
particular Series of Investor Notes, the Holders of a Majority in Interest of
the Investor Notes of such Series), by written notice to the Issuer and the
Indenture Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its
consequences; provided, that, no such rescission shall affect any subsequent
default or impair any right consequent thereto.

C. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by the Indenture
Trustee.

1. The Issuer covenants that if (i) default is made in the
payment of any interest on any Investor Note when the same becomes due and
payable, and such default continues for a period of five Business Days or
(ii) default is made in the payment of the principal of any Investor Note
when the same becomes due and payable, by acceleration or at stated maturity,
the Issuer will, upon demand of the Indenture Trustee, pay to it, for the
benefit of the Holders of such Investor Notes, the whole amount then due and
payable on such Investor Notes for principal and interest, with interest upon
the overdue principal, and, to the extent payment at such rate of interest
shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest, at the
Note Rate borne by the Investor Notes, and in addition thereto such further
amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection,
including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances
of the Indenture Trustee and its agents and counsel.

2. In case the Issuer shall fail forthwith to pay such
amounts upon such demand, the Indenture Trustee, in its own name and as
trustee of an express trust, may institute a proceeding for the collection of
the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or
final decree, and may enforce the same against the Issuer or other obligor
upon such Investor Notes and collect in the manner provided by law out of the

-46- 

property of the Issuer or other obligor upon such Investor Notes, wherever
situated, the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable.

3. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the
Indenture Trustee may, as more particularly provided in Section 9.4, in its
discretion, proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the
Investor Noteholders, by such appropriate proceedings as the Indenture
Trustee shall deem most effective to protect and enforce any such rights,
whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this
Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to
enforce any other proper remedy or legal or equitable right vested in the
Indenture Trustee by this Indenture or by law.

4. In case there shall be pending, relative to the Issuer
or any other obligor upon the Investor Notes or any Person having or claiming
an ownership interest in the Issuer Assets, proceedings under the Bankruptcy
Code or any other applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other
similar law, or in case a receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or
reorganization, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official shall have been
appointed for or taken possession of the Issuer or its property or such other
obligor or Person, or in the case of any other comparable judicial
proceedings relative to the Issuer or other obligor upon the Investor Notes,
or to the creditors or property of the Issuer or such other obligor, the
Indenture Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of any Investor
Notes shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or
otherwise and irrespective of whether the Indenture Trustee shall have made
any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section, shall be entitled and
empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise:

a. to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount
of principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Investor
Notes and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary
or advisable in order to have the claims of the Indenture Trustee
(including any claim for reasonable compensation to the Indenture
Trustee and each predecessor Indenture Trustee, and their respective
agents, attorneys and counsel, and for reimbursement of all expenses
and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Indenture
Trustee and each predecessor Indenture Trustee, except as a result of
negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct) and of the Investor
Noteholders allowed in such proceedings;

b. unless prohibited by applicable law and regulations, to
vote on behalf of the Holders of the Investor Notes in any election
of a trustee, a standby trustee or person performing similar
functions in any such proceedings;

-47- 

c. to collect and receive any moneys or other property
payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute all
amounts received with respect to the claims of the Investor
Noteholders and of the Indenture Trustee on their behalf; and

d. to file such proofs of claim and other papers or
documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the
claims of the Indenture Trustee or the Holders of the Investor Notes
allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer, its
creditors and its property;

and any trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official in
any such proceeding is hereby authorized by each of such Investor Noteholders
to make payments to the Indenture Trustee, and, in the event that the
Indenture Trustee shall consent to the making of payments directly to such
Investor Noteholders, to pay to the Indenture Trustee such amounts as shall
be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Indenture Trustee, each
predecessor Indenture Trustee and their respective agents, attorneys and
counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances
made, by the Indenture Trustee and each predecessor Indenture Trustee except
as a result of negligence or bad faith.

5. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
authorize the Indenture Trustee to authorize or consent to or vote for or
accept or adopt on behalf of any Investor Noteholder any plan of
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Investor
Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Indenture
Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Investor Noteholder in any
such proceeding except, as aforesaid, to vote for the election of a trustee
in bankruptcy or similar person.

6. All rights of action and of asserting claims under
this Indenture, or under any of the Investor Notes, may be enforced by the
Indenture Trustee without the possession of any of the Investor Notes or the
production thereof in any trial or other proceedings relative thereto, and
any such action or proceedings instituted by the Indenture Trustee shall be
brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of
judgment, subject to the payment of the expenses, disbursements and
compensation of the Indenture Trustee, each predecessor Indenture Trustee and
their respective agents and attorneys, shall be for the ratable benefit of
the Holders of the Investor Notes.

7. In any proceedings brought by the Indenture Trustee
(and also any proceedings involving the interpretation of any provision of
this Indenture to which the Indenture Trustee shall be a party), the
Indenture Trustee shall be held to represent all the Holders of the Investor

-48- 

Notes, and it shall not be necessary to make any Investor Noteholder a party
to any such proceedings.

D. Remedies; Priorities.

1. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing with respect to any Series of Outstanding Investor Notes and such
Series of Investor Notes has been accelerated under Section 9.4, the
Indenture Trustee may institute proceedings to enforce the obligations of the
Issuer hereunder in its own name and as trustee of an express trust for the
collection of all amounts then payable on the Investor Notes of such Series
or under this Indenture with respect thereto, whether by declaration or
otherwise, enforce any judgment obtained, and collect from the Issuer and any
other obligor upon such Investor Notes moneys adjudged due.

2. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing with respect to all Series of Outstanding Investor Notes and all
Series of Outstanding Investor Notes have been accelerated under Section 9.2,
the Indenture Trustee (subject to Section 9.5) may do one or more of the
following:

a. institute proceedings from time to time for the
complete or partial foreclosure of this Indenture with respect to the
Issuer Assets;

b. exercise any remedies of a secured party under the
UCC and take any other appropriate action to protect and enforce the
rights and remedies of the Indenture Trustee and the Holders of the
Investor Notes; and

c. in the case of an Event of Default referred to in
clause (a) or (b) of Section 9.1, sell the Issuer Assets or any
portion thereof or rights or interest therein, at one or more public
or private sales called and conducted in any manner permitted by law;

provided that the Indenture Trustee may not sell or otherwise liquidate the
Issuer Assets following an Event of Default referred to in clause (a) or (b)
of Section 9.1, unless (A) the Holders of Investor Notes representing 100% of
the Aggregate Invested Amount consent thereto, (B) the proceeds of such sale
or liquidation distributable to the Investor Noteholders are sufficient to
discharge in full all amounts then due and unpaid upon the Investor Notes for
principal and interest, or (C) (1) the Indenture Trustee determines that the
Issuer Assets will not continue to provide sufficient funds for the payment
of principal of and interest on the Investor Notes as they would have become
due if the Investor Notes had not been declared due and payable and (2) the
Indenture Trustee obtains the consent of a Majority in Interest of the
Holders of each Series of Outstanding Investor Notes. In determining such

-49- 

sufficiency or insufficiency with respect to clause (B) and (C), the
Indenture Trustee may, but need not, obtain and rely upon an opinion of an
Independent investment banking or accounting firm of national reputation as
to the feasibility of such proposed action and as to the sufficiency of the
Issuer Assets for such purpose.

3. If the Indenture Trustee collects any money or
property pursuant to this Article 9, such money or property shall be held by
the Indenture Trustee as additional collateral hereunder and the Indenture
Trustee shall pay out such money or property in the following order:

FIRST: to the Indenture Trustee for amounts due under
Section 10.6; and

SECOND: to the Collection Account for distribution in
accordance with the provisions of Article 5.

E. Optional Preservation of the Issuer Assets.

If the Investor Notes of each Series Outstanding have been
declared to be due and payable under Section 9.2 following an Event of
Default and such declaration and its consequences have not been rescinded and
annulled, the Indenture Trustee may, but need not, elect to maintain
possession of the Issuer Assets. It is the desire of the parties hereto and
the Investor Noteholders that there be at all times sufficient funds for the
payment of principal of and interest on the Investor Notes, and the Indenture
Trustee shall take such desire into account when determining whether to
maintain possession of the Issuer Assets. In determining whether to maintain
possession of the Issuer Assets, the Indenture Trustee may, but need not,
obtain and rely upon an opinion of an Independent investment banking or
accounting firm of national reputation as to the feasibility of such proposed
action and as to the sufficiency of the Issuer Assets for such purpose.
Nothing contained in this Section 9.5 shall be construed to require the
Indenture Trustee to preserve the Issuer Assets securing the Issuer
Obligations if prohibited by applicable law or if the Indenture Trustee is
authorized, directed or permitted to liquidate the Issuer Assets pursuant to
Section 9.4(b).

F. Performance and Enforcement of Certain Obligations.

1. Promptly following a request from the Indenture Trustee
to do so and at the Administrator s expense, the Issuer agrees to take all
such lawful action as the Indenture Trustee may request to compel or secure
the performance and observance by SPV, the Origination Trust and the
Servicer, as applicable, of each of their respective obligations to the
Issuer under or in connection with the Transfer Agreement and the Origination
Trust Documents, respectively, in accordance with their respective terms, and

-50- 

to exercise any and all rights, remedies, powers and privileges lawfully
available to the Issuer under or in connection with the Transaction Documents
to the extent and in the manner directed by the Indenture Trustee, including
the transmission of notices of default on the part of SPV, the Origination
Trust or the Servicer thereunder and the institution of legal or
administrative actions or proceedings to compel or secure performance by SPV,
the Origination Trust or the Servicer of each of their respective obligations
thereunder.

2. If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing
with respect to any Series of Outstanding Investor Notes, the Indenture
Trustee may, and, at the direction (which direction shall be in writing) of
the Holders of a Majority in Interest of such Series of Outstanding Investor
Notes (or, if an Event of Default with respect to more than one Series of
Investor Notes has occurred, a Majority in Interest of each Series of
Investor Notes with respect to which an Event of Default shall have occurred)
shall exercise all rights, remedies, powers, privileges and claims of the
Issuer against SPV, the Origination Trust or the Servicer under or in
connection with the Transfer Agreement and the Origination Trust Documents,
including the right or power to take any action to compel or secure
performance or observance by SPV, the Origination Trust or the Servicer of
each of their respective obligations to the Issuer thereunder and to give any
consent, request, notice, direction, approval, extension or waiver under the
Transfer Agreement and the Origination Trust Documents, and any right of the
Issuer to take such action shall be suspended; provided that, if an Event of
Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to less than all Series
of Outstanding Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee may not take any action
hereunder that is detrimental to the rights of the Holders of the Investor
Notes with respect to which no Event of Default shall have occurred.

G. Limitation on Suits.

No Holder of any Investor Note shall have any right to
institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this
Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other
remedy hereunder, unless:

1. such Holder has previously given written notice to the
Indenture Trustee of a continuing Event of Default;

2. Holders of each Series of Outstanding Investor Notes
holding Investor Notes evidencing at least 25% of each Class of
Investor Notes of such Series have made written request to the
Indenture Trustee to institute such proceeding in respect of such
Event of Default in its own name as the Indenture Trustee hereunder;

-51- 

3. such Holder or Holders have offered to the Indenture
Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs,
expenses and liabilities to be incurred in complying with such
request;

4. the Indenture Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of
such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute
such proceedings; and

5. no direction inconsistent with such written request has
been given to the Indenture Trustee during such 60-day period by the
Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of Outstanding
Investor Notes;

it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders of the Investor
Notes shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by
availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice
the rights of any other Holders of the Investor Notes or to obtain or to seek
to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any
right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided.

In the event the Indenture Trustee shall receive conflicting
or inconsistent requests and indemnity from two or more groups of Holders of
Investor Notes, each representing less than a Majority in Interest of each
Series of Outstanding Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall act at the
direction of the group of Holders of Investor Notes with the greater amount
of Investor Notes, however, should the Indenture Trustee receive conflicting
or inconsistent requests on indemnity from two or more groups of Holders with
an equal amount of Investor Notes the Indenture Trustee in its sole
discretion may determine what action, if any, shall be taken, notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Indenture.

H. Unconditional Rights of Investor Noteholders to Receive Principal and
Interest. Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Indenture, the Holder
of any Investor Note shall have the right, which is absolute and
unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and interest, if any,
on such Investor Note on or after the respective due dates thereof expressed
in such Investor Note or in this Indenture and to institute suit for the
enforcement of any such payment, and such right shall not be impaired without
the consent of such Holder.

I. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.

If the Indenture Trustee or any Investor Noteholder has
instituted any Proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture
and such Proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason or has
been determined adversely to the Indenture Trustee or to such Investor

-52- 

Noteholder, then and in every such case the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and
the Investor Noteholders shall, subject to any determination in such
Proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions
hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Indenture Trustee
and the Investor Noteholders shall continue as though no such Proceeding had
been instituted.

J. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.

No right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the
Indenture Trustee or to the Investor Noteholders is intended to be exclusive
of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent
permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and
remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or
otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or
otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any
other appropriate right or remedy.

K. Delay or Omission Not a Waiver.

No delay or omission of the Indenture Trustee or any Holder
of any Investor Note to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any
Default or Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or
constitute a waiver of any such Default or Event of Default or an
acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article 9 or by
law to the Indenture Trustee or to the Investor Noteholders may be exercised
from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Indenture
Trustee or by the Investor Noteholders, as the case may be.

L. Control by Investor Noteholders.

The Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of
Outstanding Investor Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method
and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the
Indenture Trustee with respect to the Investor Notes or exercising any trust
or power conferred on the Indenture Trustee; provided that

1. such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of
law or with this Indenture;

2. if an Event of Default is with respect to less than all
Series of Outstanding Investor Notes, then the Indenture Trustee s
rights and remedies shall be limited to the rights and remedies
pertaining only to those Series of Investor Notes with respect to
which such Event of Default has occurred and the Indenture Trustee
shall exercise such rights and remedies at the direction of the

-53- 

Holders of a Majority in Interest of all such Series of Investor
Notes;

3. subject to the express terms of Section 9.4, any
direction to the Indenture Trustee to sell or liquidate the Issuer
Assets shall be by the Holders of Investor Notes representing not
less than 100% of the Aggregate Invested Amount;

4. if the conditions set forth in Section 9.5 have been
satisfied and the Indenture Trustee elects to retain the Issuer
Assets pursuant to such Section, then any direction to the Indenture
Trustee by Holders of Investor Notes representing less than 100% of
the Aggregate Invested Amount to sell or liquidate the Issuer Assets
shall be of no force and effect;

5. the Indenture Trustee may take any other action deemed
proper by the Indenture Trustee that is not inconsistent with such
direction; and

6. such direction shall be in writing;

provided, further, that, subject to Section 10.1, the Indenture Trustee need
not take any action that it determines might involve it in liability or might
materially adversely affect the rights of any Investor Noteholders not
consenting to such action.

M. Waiver of Past Defaults.

Prior to the declaration of the acceleration of the maturity
of the Investor Notes of any Series as provided in Section 9.2, the Holders
of the Investor Notes of not less than a Majority in Interest of such Series
of Outstanding Investor Notes may, on behalf of all such Holders, waive any
past Default or Event of Default and its consequences except a Default (a) in
payment of principal of or interest on any of the Investor Notes or (b) in
respect of a covenant or provision hereof which cannot be modified or amended
without the consent of the Holder of each Investor Note. In the case of any
such waiver, the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and the Holders of the
Investor Notes of such Outstanding Series shall be restored to their former
positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend
to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereto.

Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist and
be deemed to have been cured and not to have occurred, and any Event of
Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured and not to have
occurred, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall
extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any

-54- 

right consequent thereto. The Issuer shall give prompt written notice of any
waiver to the Rating Agencies.

N. Undertaking for Costs. All parties to this Indenture agree, and each
Holder of any Investor Note by such Holder s acceptance thereof shall be
deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any
suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in
any suit against the Indenture Trustee for any action taken, suffered or
omitted by it as the Indenture Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in
such Proceeding of an undertaking to pay the costs of such Proceeding, and
that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including
reasonable attorneys  fees, against any party litigant in such Proceeding,
having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made
by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to
(a) any suit instituted by the Indenture Trustee, (b) any suit instituted by
any Investor Noteholder or group of Investor Noteholders, in each case
holding in the aggregate more than 10% of the Invested Amount of any Series
of Investor Notes, or (c) any suit instituted by any Investor Noteholder for
the enforcement of the payment of principal of or interest on any Investor
Note on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Investor Note and
in this Indenture.

O. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.

The Issuer covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do
so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead or in any manner
whatsoever, claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension
law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect
the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Issuer (to the
extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or
advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or
impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Indenture Trustee,
but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no
such law had been enacted.

P. Action on Investor Notes.

The Indenture Trustee s right to seek and recover judgment
on the Investor Notes or under this Indenture shall not be affected by the
seeking, obtaining or application of any other relief under or with respect
to this Indenture. Neither the lien of this Indenture nor any rights or
remedies of the Indenture Trustee or the Investor Noteholders shall be
impaired by the recovery of any judgment by the Indenture Trustee against the
Issuer or by the levy of any execution under such judgment upon any portion
of the Issuer Assets or upon any of the assets of the Issuer.

-55- 

ARTICLE IX.

THE INDENTURE TRUSTEE

A. Duties of the Indenture Trustee.

1. If an Amortization Event or Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing, the Indenture Trustee shall exercise such of the
rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of
care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use
under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.

2. The Indenture Trustee, upon receipt of all
resolutions, certificates, statements, opinions, reports, documents, orders
or other instruments furnished to the Indenture Trustee which are
specifically required to be furnished pursuant to any provision of this
Indenture or any of the other Transaction Documents, shall examine them to
determine whether they substantially conform to the requirements of this
Indenture or such other Transaction Document, as the case may be; provided,
however, that the Indenture Trustee shall not be responsible for the content
of any resolution, certificate, statement, opinion, report, document, order
or other instrument furnished by the Servicer, the Administrator or the
Issuer hereunder.

3. Subject to subsection 10.1(a), no provision of this
Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Indenture Trustee from liability
for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own bad
faith or wilful misconduct; provided, however, that:

a. the Indenture Trustee shall not be liable for an error
of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the
Indenture Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Indenture
Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts nor shall
the Indenture Trustee be liable with respect to any action it takes
or omits to take in good faith in accordance with this Indenture or
in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 9.12;

b. the Indenture Trustee shall not be charged with
knowledge of any Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the
Indenture Trustee obtains actual knowledge thereof or receives
written notice thereof;

c. the Indenture Trustee shall not be charged with
knowledge of any failure by any Person to comply with its obligations
under the Transaction Documents unless a Responsible Officer of the

-56- 

Indenture Trustee obtains actual knowledge of such failure or
receives written notice thereof;

d. prior to the occurrence of an Amortization Event or an
Event of Default, and after the curing of all such Amortization
Events or Events of Default which may have occurred, the duties and
obligations of the Indenture Trustee shall be determined solely by
the express provisions of this Indenture, the Indenture Trustee shall
be obligated to perform only such duties and obligations as are
specifically set forth in this Indenture and no implied covenants or
obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Indenture
Trustee;

e. anything in this Indenture to the contrary
notwithstanding, in no event shall the Indenture Trustee be liable
for special, indirect or consequential loss or damage of any kind
whatsoever (including but not limited to lost profits), even if the
Indenture Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or
damage and regardless of the form of action; and

f. subject to the other provisions of this Indenture and
without limiting the generality of this Section 10.01, the Indenture
Trustee shall have no duty (A) to record, file, or deposit this
Indenture, the Transaction Documents or any agreement referred to
herein or therein or any financing statement or continuation
statement evidencing a security interest, or to maintain any such
recording or filing or depositing or to rerecord, refile, or
redeposit any thereof, (B) to insure the Issuer Assets and (C) to pay
or discharge any tax, assessment, or other governmental charge or any
lien or encumbrance of any kind owing with respect to assessed or
levied against, any part of the Collateral other than from funds
available in the Collection Account.

4. The Indenture Trustee shall not be required to
expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the
performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its
rights or powers, if there is reasonable ground for believing that the
repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability
is not reasonably assured to it, and none of the provisions contained in this
Indenture shall in any event require the Indenture Trustee to perform, or be
responsible for the manner of performance of, any of the obligations of any
Person under any of the Transaction Documents.

5. Except for actions expressly authorized by this
Indenture, the Indenture Trustee shall take no action reasonably likely to
impair the security interests created hereunder in any of the Issuer Assets

-57- 

now existing or hereafter created or to impair the value of any of the Issuer
Assets now existing or hereafter created.

6. In the event that the Paying Agent or the Transfer
Agent and Registrar shall fail to perform any obligation, duty or agreement
in the manner or on the day required to be performed by the Paying Agent or
the Transfer Agent and Registrar, as the case may be, under this Indenture,
the Indenture Trustee shall be obligated promptly to perform such obligation,
duty or agreement in the manner so required.

B. Rights of the Indenture Trustee.

Except as otherwise provided by Section 10.1:

1. The Indenture Trustee may conclusively rely and
shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting based
upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been
signed by or presented by the proper person.

2. The Indenture Trustee may consult with counsel of
its selection and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion
of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection
from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by
it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.

3. The Indenture Trustee may act through agents,
custodians and nominees and shall not be liable for any misconduct or
negligence on the part of, or for the supervision of, any such agent,
custodian or nominee so long as such agent, custodian or nominee is
appointed with due care.

4. The Indenture Trustee shall not be liable for any
action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to
be authorized or within its rights or powers conferred upon it by the
Indenture; provided, that the Indenture Trustee s conduct does not
constitute wilful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.

5. Prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and
after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, the
Indenture Trustee shall be under no obligation to institute, conduct
or defend any litigation hereunder or in relation hereto and shall
not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters
stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument,
opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, or
other paper or document, unless requested in writing to do so by
Holders of the Investor Notes evidencing not less than 25% of the
Invested Amount of any Series of Investor Notes; provided, however,

-58- 

that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Indenture Trustee
of the costs, expenses, or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in
instituting, conducting or defending any litigation hereunder or in
relation hereto or in the making of such investigation shall be, in
the opinion of the Indenture Trustee, not reasonably assured to the
Indenture Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this
Indenture, the Indenture Trustee may require reasonable indemnity
against such cost, expense, or liability or payment of such expenses
as a condition precedent to so proceeding. The reasonable expense of
every such examination shall be paid by the Issuer or by the
Administrator at the direction of the Issuer or, if paid by the
Indenture Trustee, shall be reimbursed by the Issuer or by the
Administrator at the direction of the Issuer upon demand.

6. The Indenture Trustee shall not be liable for any
losses or liquidation penalties in connection with Permitted
Investments, unless such losses or liquidation penalties were
incurred through the Indenture Trustee s own willful misconduct,
negligence or bad faith.

7. The Indenture Trustee shall not be liable for the
acts or omissions of any successor to the Indenture Trustee so long
as such acts or omissions were not the result of the negligence, bad
faith or willful misconduct of Chase.

8. The right of the Indenture Trustee to perform any
discretionary act enumerated in this Indenture shall not be construed
as a duty, and the Indenture Trustee shall not be answerable for
other than its negligence or wilful misconduct in the performance of
such act.

9. The Indenture Trustee shall not be required to give
any bond or surety in respect of the execution of the Trust created
hereby or the powers granted hereunder.

C. Indenture Trustee s Disclaimer.

The Indenture Trustee assumes no responsibility for the
correctness of the recitals contained herein and in the Investor Notes (other
than the certificate of authentication on the Investor Notes). Except as set
forth in Section 10.11, the Indenture Trustee makes no representations as to
the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Investor Notes (other
than the certificate of authentication on the Investor Notes) or of any of
the Issuer Assets. The Indenture Trustee shall not be accountable for the
use or application by the Issuer of any of the Investor Notes or of the
proceeds of such Investor Notes, or for the use or application of any funds
paid to the Issuer in respect of the Issuer Assets.

-59- 

D. Indenture Trustee May Own Investor Notes.

The Indenture Trustee in its individual or any other
capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Investor Notes with the same
rights as it would have if it were not the Indenture Trustee.

E. Notice of Defaults.

If a Default or an Event of Default or a Potential
Amortization Event or an Amortization Event occurs and is continuing and if
it is either actually known or written notice of the existence thereof has
been delivered to a Responsible Officer of the Indenture Trustee, the
Indenture Trustee shall mail to each Noteholder notice thereof within 45 days
after such knowledge or notice occurs. Except in the case of a Default in
accordance with the provisions of Section 313(c) of the TIA in payment of
principal of or interest on any Investor Note (including payments pursuant to
the mandatory redemption provisions of such Investor Note), the Indenture
Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its
Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is
in the interest of the Investor Noteholders.

F. Compensation.

The Issuer shall cause the Administrator pursuant to the
Administration Agreement to pay to the Indenture Trustee from time to time
reasonable compensation for its services. The Indenture Trustee s
compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of
an express trust. The Issuer shall cause the Administrator pursuant to the
Administration Agreement to reimburse the Indenture Trustee for all
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of
collection, in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses
shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and
advances of the Indenture Trustee s agents, counsel, accountants and experts.
The Issuer shall cause the Administrator pursuant to the Administration
Agreement to indemnify the Indenture Trustee against any and all loss,
liability or expense (including the reasonable fees of counsel) incurred by
it in connection with the administration of this trust and the performance of
its duties hereunder. The Indenture Trustee shall notify the Issuer and the
Administrator promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity;
provided, however, a failure by the Indenture Trustee to promptly notify the
Issuer and the Administrator of a claim for which it may seek indemnity shall
not relieve the Administrator from its obligation to indemnify the Indenture
Trustee.

The Administrator s payment obligations to the Indenture
Trustee pursuant to this Section 10.06 shall survive the resignation or
termination of the Indenture Trustee and the discharge of this Indenture.

-60- 

When the Indenture Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default
specified in Section 8.1(f) with respect to the Issuer, the expenses are
intended to constitute expenses of administration under the Bankruptcy Code
or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar
law.

G. Eligibility Requirements for Indenture Trustee.

The Indenture Trustee hereunder shall at all times be a
corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States
or any state thereof authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust
powers, having a long-term unsecured debt rating of at least  Baa3  by
Moody s and  BBB-  by Standard   Poor s having, in the case of an entity that
is subject to risk-based capital adequacy requirements, risk-based capital of
at least $50,000,000 or, in the case of an entity that is not subject to
risk-based capital adequacy requirements, having a combined capital and
surplus of at least $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by
federal or state authority, and shall satisfy the requirements for a trustee
set forth in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of Rule 3a-7 under the Investment Company
Act. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually,
pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or
examining authority, then for the purpose of this Section 10.7, the risk-
based capital or the combined capital and surplus of such corporation, as the
case may be, shall be deemed to be its risk-based capital or combined capital
and surplus as set forth in the most recent report of condition so published.

If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, the Indenture
Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a) and
the Indenture Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 310(b), including the
optional provision permitted by the second sentence of TIA Section 310(b)(9);
provided that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA
Section 310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities of
the Issuer are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth
in the TIA Section 310(b)(1) are met.

If at any time the Indenture Trustee ceases to be eligible
in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10.7, the Indenture Trustee
shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in
Section 10.8.

H. Resignation or Removal of Indenture Trustee.

1. The Indenture Trustee may give notice of its intent to
resign at any time by so notifying the Issuer. The Holders of a Majority in
Interest of each Series of Outstanding Investor Notes may remove the
Indenture Trustee by so notifying the Indenture Trustee and may appoint a

-61- 

successor Indenture Trustee. The Issuer shall remove the Indenture Trustee
if:

a. 
       
     the Indenture Trustee fails to comply with Section
10.7; 

b. 
       
     the Indenture Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or
insolvent; 

c. 
       
     a receiver or other public officer takes charge of
the Indenture Trustee or its property; or 

d. 
       
     the Indenture Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of
acting. 

2. If the Indenture Trustee gives notice of its intent
to resign or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of the Indenture
Trustee for any reason (the Indenture Trustee in such event being referred to
herein as the retiring Indenture Trustee), the Issuer shall promptly appoint
a successor Indenture Trustee.

3. A successor Indenture Trustee shall deliver a
written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Indenture Trustee and
to the Issuer and thereupon the resignation or removal of the Indenture
Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Indenture Trustee, without
any further act, deed or conveyance shall have all the rights, powers and
duties of the Indenture Trustee under this Indenture. The successor
Indenture Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Noteholders. The
retiring Indenture Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as
the Indenture Trustee to the successor Indenture Trustee.

4. If a successor Indenture Trustee does not take
office within 60 days after the retiring Indenture Trustee gives notice of
its intent to resign or is removed, the retiring Indenture Trustee, the
Issuer or the Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of Outstanding
Investor Notes may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the
appointment of a successor Indenture Trustee.

5. If the Indenture Trustee fails to comply with
Section 10.7, any Investor Noteholder may petition any court of competent
jurisdiction for the removal of the Indenture Trustee and the appointment of
a successor Indenture Trustee.

6. Any resignation or removal of the Indenture Trustee
and appointment of a successor Indenture Trustee pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Section shall not become effective until acceptance of

-62- 

appointment by the successor Indenture Trustee pursuant to Section 10.8(c)
and payment of all fees and expenses owed to the outgoing Indenture Trustee.

7. Notwithstanding the resignation or removal of the
Indenture Trustee pursuant to this Section, the Issuer s and the
Administrator s obligations under Section 10.6 shall continue for the benefit
of the retiring Indenture Trustee. The Indenture Trustee shall not be liable
for the acts or omissions of any successor Indenture Trustee.

I. Successor Indenture Trustee by Merger.

If the Indenture Trustee consolidates with, merges or
converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust
business or assets to, another corporation or banking association, the
resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall
be the successor Indenture Trustee. The Indenture Trustee shall provide the
Issuer and the Rating Agencies written notice of any such transaction.

In case at the time such successor or successors by merger,
conversion or consolidation to the Indenture Trustee shall succeed to the
trusts created by this Indenture any of the Investor Notes shall have been
authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Indenture Trustee
may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Indenture
Trustee, and deliver such Investor Notes so authenticated; and in case at
that time any of the Investor Notes shall not have been authenticated, any
successor Indenture Trustee may authenticate such Investor Notes either in
the name of any predecessor Indenture Trustee hereunder or in the name of the
successor Indenture Trustee; and in all such cases such certificate of
authentication shall have the same full force as is provided anywhere in the
Investor Notes or in this Indenture with respect to the certificate of
authentication of the Indenture Trustee.

J. Appointment of Co-Indenture Trustee or Separate Indenture Trustee.

1. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
Indenture or any Indenture Supplement, at any time, for the purpose of
meeting any legal requirements of any jurisdiction in which any part of the
Collateral may at the time be located, the Indenture Trustee shall have the
power and may execute and deliver all instruments to appoint one or more
persons to act as a co-Indenture Trustee or co-Indenture Trustees, or
separate Indenture Trustee or separate Indenture Trustees, of all or any part
of the Collateral, and to vest in such Person or Persons, in such capacity
and for the benefit of the Noteholders, such title to the Collateral, or any
part thereof, and, subject to the other provisions of this Section 10.10,
such powers, duties, obligations, rights and trusts as the Indenture Trustee
may consider necessary or desirable. No co-Indenture Trustee or separate
Indenture Trustee hereunder shall be required to meet the terms of

-63- 

eligibility as a successor Indenture Trustee under Section 10.7 and no notice
to Investor Noteholders of the appointment of any co-Indenture Trustee or
separate Indenture Trustee shall be required under Section 10.8. No
co-Indenture Trustee shall be appointed without the consent of the Issuer
unless such appointment is required as a matter of state law or to enable the
Indenture Trustee to perform its functions hereunder.

2. Every separate Indenture Trustee and co-Indenture
Trustee shall, to the extent permitted by law, be appointed and act subject
to the following provisions and conditions:

a. The Investor Notes of each Series shall be
authenticated and delivered solely by the Indenture Trustee
or an authenticating agent appointed by the Indenture
Trustee;

b. All rights, powers, duties and obligations
conferred or imposed upon the Indenture Trustee shall be
conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the
Indenture Trustee and such separate Indenture Trustee or
co-Indenture Trustee jointly (it being understood that such
separate Indenture Trustee or co-Indenture Trustee is not
authorized to act separately without the Indenture Trustee
joining in such act), except to the extent that under any
law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act or acts
are to be performed, the Indenture Trustee shall be
incompetent or unqualified to perform, such act or acts, in
which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations
(including the holding of title to the Assets or any portion
thereof in any such jurisdiction) shall be exercised and
performed singly by such separate Indenture Trustee or
co-Indenture Trustee, but solely at the direction of the
Indenture Trustee;

c. No Indenture Trustee hereunder shall be
personally liable by reason of any act or omission of any

d. The Indenture Trustee may at any time
accept the resignation of or remove any separate Indenture
Trustee or co-Indenture Trustee; and

e. The Indenture Trustee shall remain
primarily liable for the actions of any co-Indenture
Trustee.

-64- 

3. Any notice, request or other writing given to the
Indenture Trustee shall be deemed to have been given to each of the then
separate Indenture Trustees and co-Indenture Trustees, as effectively as if
given to each of them. Every instrument appointing any separate Indenture
Trustee or co-Indenture Trustee shall refer to this Indenture and the
conditions of this Article 9. Each separate Indenture Trustee and
co-Indenture Trustee, upon its acceptance of the trusts conferred, shall be
vested with the estates or property specified in its instrument of
appointment, either jointly with the Indenture Trustee or separately, as may
be provided therein, subject to all the provisions of this Indenture and any
Indenture Supplement, specifically including every provision of this
Indenture or any Indenture Supplement relating to the conduct of, affecting
the liability of, or affording protection to, the Indenture Trustee. Every
such instrument shall be filed with the Indenture Trustee and a copy thereof
given to the Issuer.

4. Any separate Indenture Trustee or co-Indenture
Trustee may at any time constitute the Indenture Trustee, its agent or
attorney-in-fact with full power and authority, to the extent not prohibited
by law, to do any lawful act under or in respect to this Indenture or any
Indenture Supplement on its behalf and in its name. If any separate
Indenture Trustee or co-Indenture Trustee shall die, become incapable of
acting, resign or be removed, all of its estates, properties, rights,
remedies and trusts shall vest in and be exercised by the Indenture Trustee,
to the extent permitted by law, without the appointment of a new or successor
Indenture Trustee.

5. In connection with the appointment of a co-Indenture
Trustee, the Indenture Trustee may, at any time, at the Indenture Trustee s
sole cost and expense, without notice to the Investor Noteholders, delegate
its duties under this Base Indenture and any Indenture Supplement to any
Person who agrees to conduct such duties in accordance with the terms hereof;
provided, however, that no such delegation shall relieve the Indenture
Trustee of its obligations and responsibilities hereunder with respect to any
such delegated duties.

K. Representations and Warranties of Indenture Trustee.

The Indenture Trustee represents and warrants to the Issuer
and the Noteholders that:

a. The Indenture Trustee is a banking
corporation organized, existing and in good standing under
the laws of the State of New York;

b. The Indenture Trustee has full power,
authority and right to execute, deliver and perform this

-65- 

Indenture and any Indenture Supplement issued concurrently
with this Indenture and to authenticate the Investor Notes,
and has taken all necessary action to authorize the
execution, delivery and performance by it of this Indenture
and any Indenture Supplement issued concurrently with this
Indenture and to authenticate the Investor Notes;

c. This Indenture has been duly executed and
delivered by the Indenture Trustee; and

d. The Indenture Trustee meets the
requirements of eligibility as an Indenture Trustee
hereunder set forth in Section 10.7.

L. Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Issuer.

If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, the Indenture
Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor
relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b) and an Indenture Trustee who has
resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent
indicated therein.

ARTICLE X.

DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE

A. Termination of the Issuer s Obligations.

1. This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect
(except that the Issuer s obligations under Section 10.6 and the Indenture
Trustee s and Paying Agent s obligations under Section 11.3 shall survive)
when all Outstanding Investor Notes theretofore authenticated and issued have
been delivered (other than destroyed, lost or stolen Investor Notes which
have been replaced or paid) to the Indenture Trustee for cancellation and the
Issuer has paid all sums payable hereunder.

2. In addition, except as may be provided to the
contrary in any Indenture Supplement, the Issuer may terminate all of its
obligations under this Indenture if:

a. The Issuer irrevocably deposits in trust
with the Indenture Trustee or at the option of the Indenture
Trustee, with an Indenture Trustee reasonably satisfactory
to the Indenture Trustee and the Issuer under the terms of
an irrevocable trust agreement in form and substance
satisfactory to the Indenture Trustee, money or U.S.
Government Obligations in an amount sufficient, in the

-66- 

opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent
certified public accountants expressed in a written
certification thereof delivered to the Indenture Trustee, to
pay, when due, principal and interest on the Investor Notes
to maturity or redemption, as the case may be, and to pay
all other sums payable by it hereunder; provided, however,
that (1) the Indenture Trustee of the irrevocable trust
shall have been irrevocably instructed to pay such money or
the proceeds of such U.S. Government Obligations to the
Indenture Trustee and (2) the Indenture Trustee shall have
been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the
proceeds of such U.S. Government Obligations to the payment
of said principal and interest with respect to the Investor
Notes;

b. The Issuer delivers to the Indenture
Trustee an Officer s Certificate stating that all conditions
precedent to satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture
have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel to the
same effect; and

c. the Rating Agency Condition is satisfied
with respect to each Series of Outstanding Investor Notes.

Then, this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as provided
in this Section 11.1), and the Indenture Trustee, on demand of the Issuer,
shall execute proper instruments acknowledging confirmation of and discharge
under this Indenture.

3. After such irrevocable deposit made pursuant to
Section 11.1(b) and satisfaction of the other conditions set forth herein,
the Indenture Trustee upon request shall acknowledge in writing the discharge
of the Issuer s obligations under this Indenture except for those surviving
obligations specified above.

In order to have money available on a payment date to pay
principal or interest on the Investor Notes, the U.S. Government Obligations
shall be payable as to principal or interest at least one Business Day before
such payment date in such amounts as will provide the necessary money. U.S.
Government Obligations shall not be callable at the issuer s option.

B. Application of Trust Money.

The Indenture Trustee or a trustee satisfactory to the
Indenture Trustee and the Issuer shall hold in trust money or U.S. Government
Obligations deposited with it pursuant to Section 11.1. The Indenture
Trustee shall apply the deposited money and the money from U.S. Government

-67- 

Obligations through the Paying Agent in accordance with this Indenture to the
payment of principal and interest on the Investor Notes.

The provisions of this Section 11.2 shall survive the
expiration or earlier termination of this Indenture.

C. Repayment to the Issuer.

The Indenture Trustee and the Paying Agent shall promptly
pay to the Issuer upon written request any excess money or, pursuant to
Section 2.4, return any Investor Notes held by them at any time.

The provisions of this Section 11.3 shall survive the
expiration or earlier termination of this Indenture.

ARTICLE XI.

AMENDMENTS

A. Without Consent of the Investor Noteholders.

Without the consent of any Investor Noteholder, the Issuer
and the Indenture Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into
one or more Indenture Supplements hereto, in form satisfactory to the
Indenture Trustee, for any of the following purposes, provided that the
Rating Agency Condition is met:

1. to create a new Series of Investor Notes;

2. to add to the covenants of the Issuer for the
benefit of any Investor Noteholders (and if such covenants are to be
for the benefit of less than all Series of Investor Notes, stating
that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the
benefit of such Series) or to surrender any right or power herein
conferred upon the Issuer (provided, however, that the Issuer will
not pursuant to this Section 12.1(b) surrender any right or power it
has under the Transaction Documents);

3. to mortgage, pledge, convey, assign and transfer to
the Indenture Trustee any property or assets as security for the
Investor Notes and to specify the terms and conditions upon which
such property or assets are to be held and dealt with by the
Indenture Trustee and to set forth such other provisions in respect
thereof as may be required by the Indenture or as may, consistent
with the provisions of the Indenture, be deemed appropriate by the
Issuer and the Indenture Trustee, or to correct or amplify the

-68- 

description of any such property or assets at any time so mortgaged,
pledged, conveyed and transferred to the Indenture Trustee on behalf
of the Noteholders;

4. to cure any ambiguity, defect, or inconsistency or
to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any
Indenture Supplement or in any Investor Notes issued hereunder;

5. to evidence and provide for the acceptance of
appointment hereunder by a successor Indenture Trustee with respect
to the Investor Notes of one or more Series and to add to or change
any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to
provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder
by more than one Indenture Trustee;

6. to correct or Indenture Supplement any provision
herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein or
to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions
arising under this Indenture; or

7. if this Indenture is required to be qualified under
the TIA, to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of this
Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to effect the
qualification of this Indenture under the TIA or under any similar
federal statute hereafter enacted and to add to this Indenture such
other provisions as may be expressly required by the TIA;

provided, however, that, as evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel delivered to
the Indenture Trustee (at the Issuer s expense), such action shall not
adversely affect in any material respect the interests of any Investor
Noteholder. Upon the request of the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee shall join
with the Issuer in the execution of any Indenture Supplement authorized or
permitted by the terms of this Indenture and shall make any further
appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained, but
the Indenture Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into such Indenture
Supplement which affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this
Indenture or otherwise.

B. With Consent of the Investor Noteholders.

Except as provided in Section 12.1, the provisions of this
Indenture and any Indenture Supplement (unless otherwise provided in such
Indenture Supplement) and each other Transaction Document to which the Issuer
is a party may from time to time be amended, modified or waived, if such
amendment, modification or waiver is in writing and consented to in writing
by the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and the Holders of a Majority in
Interest of each Series of Outstanding Investor Notes; provided that, if such

-69- 

amendment, modification or waiver of or to this Indenture, the Indenture
Supplement with respect to a Series of Investor Notes or any Transaction
Document does not affect the Noteholders of a particular Series of Investor
Notes (as substantiated by an Opinion of Counsel to such effect), then the
consent of the Investor Noteholders of such Series shall not be required to
such amendment, modification or waiver; provided further, that no consent of
Investor Noteholders shall be required to any amendment, modification or
waiver of or to any Transaction Document if such amendment, modification or
waiver does not adversely affect in any material respect the Noteholders of
any Series of Investor Notes (as substantiated by an Opinion of Counsel to
such effect) and provided further that the Rating Agency Condition is
satisfied with respect to each affected Series of Investor Notes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing:

a. any modification of this Section 11.2, any
requirement hereunder that any particular action be taken by
Investor Noteholders holding the relevant percentage in
principal amount of the Investor Notes or any change in the
definition of the terms  Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance  or
 Asset Deficiency ,  Invested Amount ,  Invested Percentage 
or any defined term used for the purpose of any such
definitions shall require the consent of each affected
Investor Noteholder; and

b. any amendment, waiver or other modification
that would (a) extend the due date for, or reduce the amount
of any scheduled repayment or prepayment of principal of or
interest on any Investor Note (or reduce the principal
amount of or rate of interest on any Investor Note) shall
require the consent of each affected Investor Noteholder;
(b) approve the assignment or transfer by the Issuer of any
of its rights or obligations hereunder or under any other
Transaction Document to which it is a party except pursuant
to the express terms hereof or thereof shall require the
consent of each Investor Noteholder; (c) release any obligor
under any Transaction Document to which it is a party except
pursuant to the express terms of such Transaction Document
shall require the consent of each Investor Noteholder;
provided, however, that the Liens on Vehicles may be
released as provided in Section 3.5; (d) affect adversely
the interests, rights or obligations of any Investor
Noteholder individually in comparison to any other Investor
Noteholder shall require the consent of such Investor
Noteholder; or (e) amend or otherwise modify any
Amortization Event shall require the consent of each
affected Investor Noteholder.

-70- 

C. Indenture Supplements.

Each amendment or other modification to this Indenture or
the Investor Notes shall be set forth in an Indenture Supplement. The
initial effectiveness of each Indenture Supplement shall be subject to the
satisfaction of the Rating Agency Condition. In addition to the manner
provided in Sections 12.1 and 12.2, each Indenture Supplement may be amended
as provided in such Indenture Supplement.

D. Revocation and Effect of Consents.

Until an amendment or waiver becomes effective, a consent to
it by an Investor Noteholder of an Investor Note is a continuing consent by
the Investor Noteholder and every subsequent Investor Noteholder of an
Investor Note or portion of an Investor Note that evidences the same debt as
the consenting Investor Noteholder s Investor Note, even if notation of the
consent is not made on any Investor Note. However, any such Investor
Noteholder or subsequent Investor Noteholder may revoke the consent as to his
Investor Note or portion of an Investor Note if the Indenture Trustee
receives written notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver
becomes effective. An amendment or waiver becomes effective in accordance
with its terms and thereafter binds every Investor Noteholder. The Issuer
may fix a record date for determining which Investor Noteholders must consent
to such amendment or waiver.

E. Notation on or Exchange of Investor Notes.

The Indenture Trustee may place an appropriate notation
about an amendment or waiver on any Investor Note thereafter authenticated.
The Issuer in exchange for all Investor Notes may issue and the Indenture
Trustee shall authenticate new Investor Notes that reflect the amendment or
waiver. Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Investor
Note shall not affect the validity and effect of-such amendment or waiver.

F. The Indenture Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc.

The Indenture Trustee shall sign any Indenture Supplement
authorized pursuant to this Article 12 if the Indenture Supplement does not
adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the
Indenture Trustee. If it does, the Indenture Trustee may, but need not, sign
it. In signing such Indenture Supplement, the Indenture Trustee shall be
entitled to receive, if requested, an indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it
and to receive and, subject to Section 10.1, shall be fully protected in
relying upon, an Officer s Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as
conclusive evidence that such Indenture Supplement is authorized or permitted
by this Indenture and that it will be valid and binding upon the Issuer in
accordance with its terms

-71- 

G. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.

If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, every
amendment of this Indenture and every supplemental indenture executed
pursuant to this Article 12 shall comply in all respects with the TIA.

ARTICLE XII.

MISCELLANEOUS

A. Compliance Certificates and Opinions.

1. Upon any application or request by the Issuer to the
Indenture Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture,
the Issuer shall furnish to the Indenture Trustee (i) an Officer s
Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in
this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, (ii)
an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such
conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, and (iii) if this
Indenture is qualified under the TIA and the TIA so requires, an Independent
Certificate from a firm of certified public accountants or other experts
meeting the applicable requirements of this Section 13.1, except that, in the
case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such
documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture, no
additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.

Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with
a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:

a. a statement that each signatory of such certificate
or opinion has read or has caused to be read such covenant or
condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;

b. a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the
examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions
contained in such certificate or opinion are based;

c. a statement that, in the opinion of each such
signatory, such signatory has made such examination or investigation
as is necessary to enable such signatory to express an informed
opinion as to whether such covenant or condition has been complied
with; and

d. a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each
such signatory such condition or covenant has been complied with.

-72- 

2. a. If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA and
the TIA so requires, prior to the deposit of any property or securities with
the Indenture Trustee that is to be made the basis for the release of any
property or securities subject to the Lien of this Indenture, the Issuer
shall, in addition to any obligation imposed in Section 13.1(a) or elsewhere
in this Indenture, furnish to the Indenture Trustee an Officer s Certificate
certifying or stating the opinion of each person signing such certificate as
to the fair value (within 90 days of such deposit) to the Issuer of the
property or securities to be so deposited.

b. Whenever the Issuer is required to furnish to the
Indenture Trustee an Officer s Certificate certifying or stating the
opinion of any signer thereof as to the matters described in
clause (i), the Issuer shall also deliver to the Indenture Trustee an
Independent Certificate as to the same matters, if the fair value to
the Issuer of the securities to be so deposited and of all other such
securities made the basis of any such withdrawal or release since the
commencement of the then-current fiscal year of the Issuer, as set
forth in the certificates delivered pursuant to clause (i) and this
clause (ii), is 10% or more of the Aggregate Invested Amount, but
such a certificate need not be furnished with respect to any
securities so deposited, if the fair value thereof to the Issuer as
set forth in the related Officer s Certificate is less than $25,000
or less than one percent of the Aggregate Invested Amount.

c. If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA and the TIA
so requires, whenever any property or securities are to be released
from the Lien of this Indenture, the Issuer shall also furnish to the
Indenture Trustee an Officer s Certificate certifying or stating the
opinion of each person signing such certificate as to the fair value
(within 90 days of such release) of the property or securities
proposed to be released and stating that in the opinion of such
person the proposed release will not impair the security under this
Indenture in contravention of the provisions hereof.

d. Whenever the Issuer is required to furnish to the
Indenture Trustee an Officer s Certificate certifying or stating the
opinion of any signer thereof as to the matters described in clause
(iii), the Issuer shall also furnish to the Indenture Trustee an
Independent Certificate as to the same matters if the fair value of
the property or securities and of all other property, or securities
released from the Lien of this Indenture since the commencement of
the then current calendar year, as set forth in the certificates
required by clause (iii) and this clause (iv), equals 10% or more of
the Aggregate Invested Amount, but such certificate need not be
furnished in the case of any release of property or securities if the
fair value thereof as set forth in the related Officer s Certificate

-73- 

is less than $25,000 or less than one percent of the then Aggregate
Invested Amount.

e. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section, the
Issuer may (A) collect, liquidate, sell or otherwise dispose of the
Issuer Assets as and to the extent permitted or required by the
Transaction Documents and (B) make cash payments out of the Issuer
Accounts as and to the extent permitted or required by the
Transaction Documents.

B. Forms of Documents Delivered to Indenture Trustee.

In any case where several matters are required to be
certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not
necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion
of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one
document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to
some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any
such Person my certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or
several documents.

Any certificate or opinion of an Authorized Officer of the
Issuer may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a
certificate to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or
representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of
reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or
representations with respect to the matters upon which his or her certificate
or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate of an Authorized
Officer or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual
matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer
or officers of the Servicer, the Seller or the Issuer, stating that the
information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the
Servicer, the Seller or the Issuer, unless such counsel knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or
representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.

Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or
more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or
other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be
consolidated and form one instrument.

Whenever in this Indenture, in connection with any
application, certificate or report to the Indenture Trustee, it is provided
that the Issuer shall deliver any document (x) as a condition of the granting
of such application, or (y) as evidence of the Issuer s compliance with any
term hereof, it is intended that the truth and accuracy, at the time of the
granting of such application or at the effective date of such certificate or

-74- 

report (as the case may be), of the facts and opinions stated in such
document shall in each case be conditions precedent to the right of the
Issuer to have such application granted or to the sufficiency of such
certificate or report. The foregoing shall not, however, be construed to
affect the Indenture Trustee s right to rely upon the truth and accuracy of
any statement or opinion contained in any such document as provided in
Article 10.

C. Actions of Noteholders.

1. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or
taken by the Investor Noteholders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or
more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Investor
Noteholders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and except as
herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when
such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Indenture Trustee and,
when required, to the Issuer. Proof of execution of any such instrument or
of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of
this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Indenture Trustee and the
Issuer, if made in the manner provided in this Section 13.3.

2. The fact and date of the execution by any Investor Note-
holder of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any reasonable
manner which the Indenture Trustee deems sufficient.

3. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
consent, waiver or other act by an Investor Noteholder shall bind every
Holder of every Investor Note issued upon the registration of transfer there-
of or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof, in respect of anything done,
or omitted to be done, by the Indenture Trustee or the Issuer in reliance
thereon, regardless of whether notation of such action is made upon such
Investor Note.

4. The Indenture Trustee may require such additional proof
of any matter referred to in this Section 13.3 as it shall deem necessary.

D. Notices.

1. Any notice or communication by the Issuer or the
Indenture Trustee to the other shall be in writing and delivered in person or
mailed by first-class mail (registered or

-75- 

certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier or overnight air
courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the other s address:

If to the Issuer:

Greyhound Funding LLC 
c/o Global Securitization Services, LLC 
25 West 43rd Street, Suite 704 
New York, NY 10036 
Attention: President 
Telecopier No.: (212) 302-8767

with a copy to the Administrator:

PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC 
900 Old Country Road 
Garden City, New York 11530 
Telecopier: (516) 222-3751 
Attention: General Counsel

If to the Indenture Trustee:

The Chase Manhattan Bank 
450 W. 33rd Street, 14th Floor 
New York, New York 10001

Attn: Capital Markets Fiduciary Services, VMS Asset Backed 
Notes 
Phone: (212) 946-8600 
Fax: (212) 946-3916

The Issuer or the Indenture Trustee by notice to the other
may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or
communications; provided, however, the Issuer may not at any time designate
more than a total of three (3) addresses to which notices must be sent in
order to be effective.

Any notice (i) given in person shall be deemed delivered on
the date of delivery of such notice, (ii) given by first class mail shall be
deemed given five (5) days after the date that such notice is mailed, (iii)
delivered by telex or telecopier shall be deemed given on the date of
delivery of such notice, and (iv) delivered by overnight air courier shall be
deemed delivered one Business Day after the date that such notice is
delivered to such overnight courier.

Notwithstanding any provisions of this Indenture to the
contrary, the Indenture Trustee shall have no liability based upon or arising

-76- 

from the failure to receive any notice required by or relating to this
Indenture or the Investor Notes.

If the Issuer mails a notice or communication to Investor
Noteholders, it shall mail a copy to the Indenture Trustee at the same time.

Notices required to be given to the Rating Agencies by the
Issuer or the Indenture Trustee shall be in writing, personally delivered or
mailed certified mail, return receipt requested to (i) in the case of
Moody s, at the following address: Moody s Investors Service, 99 Church
Street, New York, New York 10004 and (ii) in the case of Standard   Poor s,
at the following address: Standard   Poor s Ratings Service, 55 Water Street
(40th Floor), New York, New York 10041, Attention: Asset Backed
Surveillance Department.

2. Where the Indenture provides for notice to Investor
Noteholders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless
otherwise herein expressly provided) if sent in writing and mailed,
first-class postage prepaid, to each Investor Noteholder affected by such
event, at its address as it appears in the Note Register, not later than the
latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed (if any) for
the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Investor Noteholder
is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in
any notice so mailed, to any particular Investor Noteholder shall affect the
sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Investor Noteholders, and
any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be
conclusively presumed to have been duly given. Where this Indenture provides
for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by any Person
entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such
waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Investor
Noteholders shall be filed with the Indenture Trustee, but such filing shall
not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance
upon such waiver.

In the case by reason of the suspension of regular mail
service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give
such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made that is
satisfactory to the Indenture Trustee shall constitute a sufficient
notification for every purpose hereunder.

E. Conflict with TIA.

If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA and any
provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof
that is required to be included in this indenture by any of the provisions of
the TIA, such required provision shall control.

-77- 

If this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, the provisions
of TIA Sections 310 through 317 that impose duties on any person (including
the provisions automatically deemed included herein unless expressly excluded
by this Indenture) are a part of and govern this Indenture, whether or not
physically contained herein.

F. Rules by the Indenture Trustee.

The Indenture Trustee may make reasonable rules for action
by or at a meeting of Investor Noteholders.

G. Duplicate Originals.

The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture.
One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.

H. Benefits of Indenture.

Except as set forth in an Indenture Supplement, nothing in
this Indenture or in the Investor Notes, expressed or implied, shall give to
any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and
the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim
under the Indenture.

I. Payment on Business Day.

In any case where any Payment Date, redemption date or
maturity date of any Investor Note shall not be a Business Day, then
(notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture) payment of interest
or principal (and premium, if any), as the case may be, need not be made on
such date but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same
force and effect as if made on the Payment Date, redemption date, or maturity
date; provided, however. that no interest shall accrue for the period from
and after such Payment Date, redemption date, or maturity date, as the case
may be.

J. Governing Law.

THIS INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND
INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

K. Severability of Provisions.

If any one or more of the covenants, agreements, provisions
or terms of this Indenture shall for any reason whatsoever be held invalid,
then such covenants, agreements, provisions or terms shall be deemed
severable from the remaining covenants, agreements, provisions or terms of

-78- 

this Indenture and shall in no way affect the validity of enforceability of
the other provisions of this Indenture or of the Investor Notes or rights of
the Noteholders thereof.

L. Counterparts.

This Indenture may be executed in two or more counterparts
(and by different parties on separate counterparts), each of which shall be
an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same
instrument.

M. Successors.

All agreements of the Issuer in this Indenture and the
Investor Notes shall bind its successor; provided, however, the Issuer may
not assign its obligations or rights under this Indenture or any Transaction
Document. All agreements of the Indenture Trustee in this Indenture shall
bind its successor.

N. Table of Contents, Headings, etc.

The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table, and headings
of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for
convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and
shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.

O. Recording of Indenture.

If this Indenture is subject to recording in any appropriate
public recording offices, such recording is to be effected by the Issuer and
at its expense accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel (which may be counsel to
the Indenture Trustee or any other counsel reasonably acceptable to the
Indenture Trustee) to the effect that such recording is necessary either for
the protection of the Investor Noteholders or any other person secured
hereunder or for the enforcement of any right or remedy granted to the
Indenture Trustee under this Indenture or to satisfy any provision of the TIA
(if this Indenture is qualified thereunder).

P. No Petition.

The Indenture Trustee, by entering into this Indenture, and
each Investor Noteholder, by accepting an Investor Note, hereby covenant and
agree that they will not at any time (i) institute against the Issuer or join
in any institution against the Issuer of, any bankruptcy, reorganization,
arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other proceedings
under any United States Federal or state bankruptcy or similar law in
connection with any obligations relating to the Investor Notes, this

-79- 

Indenture or any of the other Transaction Documents or (ii) institute
against, or join any other Person in instituting against, the Origination
Trust, SPV, any other Special Purpose Entity, or any general partner or
single member of any Special Purpose Entity that is a partnership or limited
liability company, respectively, any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement,
insolvency or liquidation proceeding or other proceedings under any federal
or state bankruptcy or similar law.

Section Q. SUBIs.

The Indenture Trustee, by entering into this Indenture, and
each Investor Noteholder, by accepting an Investor Note, represents, warrants
and covenants that (a) each of the Lease SUBI and the Fleet Receivable SUBI
is a separate series of the Origination Trust as provided in Section
3806(b)(2) of Chapter 38 of Title 12 of the Delaware Code, 12 Del.C.
Section 3801 et seq., (b)(i) the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses
incurred, contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to the Lease
SUBI, the Lease SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivable SUBI shall be
enforceable against the Lease SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivable SUBI
only, as applicable, and not against any other SUBI Portfolio (used in this
Section as defined in the Origination Trust Agreement) or the UTI Portfolio
and (ii) the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred,
contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to any other SUBI (used in
this Section as defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), any other SUBI
Portfolio, the UTI or the UTI Portfolio shall be enforceable against such
other SUBI Portfolio or the UTI Portfolio only, as applicable, and not
against any other SUBI Assets, (c) except to the extent required by law, UTI
Assets or SUBI Assets with respect to any SUBI (other than the Lease SUBI and
the Fleet Receivable SUBI) shall not be subject to the claims, debts,
liabilities, expenses or obligations arising from or with respect to the
Lease SUBI or Fleet Receivable SUBI, respectively, in respect of such claim,
(d)(i) no creditor or holder of a claim relating to the Lease SUBI, the Fleet
Receivable SUBI or the Lease Receivable SUBI Portfolio shall be entitled to
maintain any action against or recover any assets allocated to the UTI or the
UTI Portfolio or any other SUBI or the assets allocated thereto, and (ii) no
creditor or holder of a claim relating to the UTI, the UTI Portfolio or any
SUBI other than the Lease SUBI or the Fleet Receivable SUBI or any SUBI
Assets other than the Lease SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivables shall be
entitled to maintain any action against or recover any assets allocated to
the Lease SUBI or the Fleet Receivable SUBI, and (e) any purchaser, assignee
or pledgee of an interest in the Lease SUBI, the Lease SUBI Certificate, the
Fleet Receivable SUBI, the Lease SUBI Certificate, the Fleet Receivable SUBI
Certificate, any other SUBI, any other SUBI Certificate (used in this Section
as defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), the UTI or the UTI
Certificate must, prior to or contemporaneously with the grant of any such
assignment, pledge or security interest, (i) give to the Origination Trust a
non-petition covenant substantially similar to that set forth in Section 6.9

-80- 

of the Origination Trust Agreement, and (ii) execute an agreement for the
benefit of each holder, assignee or pledgee from time to time of the UTI or
UTI Certificate and any other SUBI or SUBI Certificate to release all claims
to the assets of the Origination Trust allocated to the UTI and each other
SUBI Portfolio and in the event that such release is not given effect, to
fully subordinate all claims it may be deemed to have against the assets of
the Origination Trust allocated to the UTI Portfolio and each other SUBI
Portfolio.

-81- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Indenture Trustee and the Issuer
have caused, this Base Indenture to be duly executed by their respective duly
authorized officers as of the day and year first written above.

GREYHOUND FUNDING, LLC,  
as Issuer 

By:   
     /s/ Kevin P. Burns

Name:   
     Kevin P. Burns  

Title:   
     Manager  

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK,  
as Indenture Trustee 

By:   
     /s/ Jennifer Cupo

Name:   
     Jennifer Cupo   

Title:   
     Vice President  

-82- 

SCHEDULE 1

TO THE

BASE INDENTURE

DEFINITIONS LIST

Accrual Period  means the period from and including a
Settlement Date (or, in the case of the initial Accrual Period, the Initial
Closing Date) to but excluding the succeeding Settlement Date.

Additional Assignment  is defined in Section 2.2 of the
Transfer Agreement.

Additional Closing Date  is defined in Section 2.3 of the
Transfer Agreement.

Additional Units  means any Unit allocated to the Lease
SUBI Portfolio after the Initial Closing Date.

Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance  means, as of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the excess of (i) the
Aggregate Lease Balance over (ii) the Aggregate Lease Adjustment Amount as of
such date, (b) 90% of the excess of (i) the Aggregate Residual Value Amount
over (ii) the Excess Residual Value Amount as of such date and (c) 90% of the
excess of (i) the Aggregate Paid-In Advance Balance over (ii) the Excess
Paid-In Advance Amount as of such date.

Administration Agreement  means the Administration
Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, by and among the
Administrator, the Issuer, SPV and the Indenture Trustee, as amended,
modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms.

Administrator  means VMS or a successor Administrator under
the Administration Agreement.

Administrator Fee  is defined in the Administration
Agreement.

Affiliate  means, with respect to any specified Person,
another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with
the Person specified. For purposes of this definition,  control  means the
power to direct the management and policies of a Person, directly or
indirectly, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or

-1- 

otherwise; and  controlled  and  controlling  have meanings correlative to the foregoing.

Aggregate Invested Amount  means the sum of the Invested Amounts with respect to all Series
of Outstanding Investor Notes.

Aggregate Invested Percentage  means, with respect to Collections for any Monthly Period, the
sum of the Invested Percentages for all Series of Outstanding Notes for such Monthly Period.

Aggregate Lease Adjustment Amount  means, as of any date of determination, an amount equal to
the sum of (a) the Overconcentration Amount as of such date, (b) the Excess Longer-Term Lease
Amount as of such date, (c) the Excess State Obligor Risk Amount as of such date and (d) the Excess
Consumer Lease Amount as of such date.

Aggregate Lease Balance  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual Period, an
amount equal to the sum of the Lease Balances of each Eligible Lease allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such
Accrual Period.

Aggregate Net Lease Losses  means, for any Monthly Period, an amount equal to the excess of
the aggregate Lease Balances of all Unit Leases that became Charged-Off Leases during such Monthly
Period over the aggregate amount of Recoveries received during such Monthly Period.

Aggregate Paid-In Advance Balance  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual
Period, an amount equal to the Cost of each Paid-In Advance Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such
Accrual Period (or, if any such Paid-In Advance Vehicle was allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio
after the last day of such Monthly Period, the Cost thereof as of the date such Paid-In Advance
Vehicle was allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio).

Aggregate Residual Value Amount  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual
Period, an amount equal to the aggregate for each Unit Vehicle subject to a Closed-End Lease
allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately
preceding the first day of such Accrual Period of the lesser of (a) the Stated Residual Value of
such Unit Vehicle and (b) the Net Book Value of such Unit Vehicle as of such day.

Aggregate Unit Balance  means, as of any date of determination, an amount equal to the sum of
(a) the Aggregate Lease Balance,

-2- 

(b) the Aggregate Paid-In Advance Balance and (c) the Aggregate Residual Value Amount as of
such date.

ALG Residual Value  means, with respect to a Leased Vehicle subject to a Closed-End Lease, an
amount equal to the residual percentage of the manufacturer s suggested retail price of such Leased
Vehicle specified in the ALG Residual Percentage Guide published by Automotive Lease Guide for the
make and model of such Leased Vehicle and the lease term of such Closed-End Lease.

Amortization Commencement Date  means, with respect to a Series of Investor Notes, the date
on which an Amortization Event with respect to such Series is deemed to have occurred pursuant to
the related Indenture Supplement.

Amortization Event  with respect to each Series of Investor Notes, is defined in the related
Indenture Supplement.

Amortization Period  means, with respect to any Series of Investor Notes or any Class within
a Series of Investor Notes, the period following the Revolving Period during which principal is
distributed to Investor Noteholders, which shall be the controlled amortization period, the
principal amortization period, the rapid amortization period, or other amortization period, in each
case as defined with respect to such Series in the related Indenture Supplement.

Annual Investor Noteholders  Tax Statement  is defined in Section 4.4(c) of the Base
Indenture.

Annual Servicing Report  is defined in Section 4.1(a) of the Base Indenture.

Applicable Gain on Sale Account Percentage  means, on any date of determination, the highest
Series Gain on Sale Account Percentage with respect to any Series of Investor Notes Outstanding.

Applicable Law  means all applicable laws, statutes, treaties, rules, codes, ordinances,
regulations, certificates, orders, interpretations, licenses and permits of any Governmental
Authority from time to time in effect, and judgments, decrees, injunctions, writs, orders or like
action of any court, arbitrator or other administrative, judicial or quasi- judicial tribunal or
agency of competent jurisdiction (including laws specifically mandating compliance by property
owners).

Applicants  is defined in Section 2.8 of the Base Indenture.

-3- 

ARAC  means Avis Rent A Car, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Asset Deficiency  means, as of any date of determination, the amount, if any, by which the
Required Aggregate Asset Amount as of such date exceeds the Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance as of
such date.

Asset Purchase Agreement  means the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing
Date, among VMS, PHH Consumer Lease and SPV, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time
in accordance with its terms.

Assumed Lease Term  means, with respect to any Yield Shortfall Lease, the number of months
over which the Capitalized Cost of the related Leased Vehicle is being depreciated thereunder.

Authorized Officer  means (a) as to the Administrator or the Servicer, any of the President,
any Executive Vice President or any Vice President of the Administrator or the Servicer, as the
case may be, (b) as to the Issuer, any officer (or agent acting pursuant to a power of attorney) of
the Issuer or of any Manager acting on behalf of the Issuer and who is identified on the list of
Authorized Officers delivered by the Manager to the Indenture Trustee on the Initial Closing Date
(as such list may be modified or supplemented from time to time thereafter) and (c) as to SPV, any
officer (or agent acting pursuant to a power of attorney) of SPV or of any manager of SPV acting on
behalf of SPV and who is identified on the list of Authorized Officers delivered by SPV to the
Indenture Trustee on the Initial Closing Date (as such list may be modified or supplemented from
time to time thereafter).

Bankruptcy Code  means The Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as amended from time to time, and
as codified as 11 U.S.C. Section 101 et seq.

Base Indenture  means the Base Indenture, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, between the
Issuer and the Indenture Trustee, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, exclusive
of Indenture Supplements creating new Series of Investor Notes.

Bearer Notes  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture.

Bearer Rules  means the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, in effect from time to time,
governing the treatment of bearer obligations, including sections 163(f), 871, 881, 1441, 1442 and
4701, and any regulations thereunder including, to the extent applicable to any Series of Notes,
Proposed or Temporary Regulations.

-4- 

Beneficial Owner  means, with respect to a Book-Entry Note, the Person who is the beneficial
owner of such Book-Entry Note, as may be reflected on the books of the Clearing Agency, or on the
books of a Person maintaining an account with such Clearing Agency (directly or as an indirect
participant, in accordance with the rules of such Clearing Agency).

Book-Entry Notes  means beneficial interests in the Investor Notes, ownership and transfers
of which shall be evidenced or made through book entries by a Clearing Agency as described in
Section 2.10 of the Base Indenture; provided that after the occurrence of a condition whereupon
book-entry registration and transfer are no longer permitted and Definitive Notes are issued to the
Beneficial Owners, such Definitive Notes shall replace Book-Entry Notes.

Business Day  means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks are
authorized or required by law to be closed in New York, Maryland or Delaware.

Capitalized Cost  means, with respect to any Leased Vehicle, the amount identified as the
 Capitalized Cost  of such Leased Vehicle, including, to the extent provided therein, delivery
charges, taxes and any registration or titling fees.

Cedel  means Cedel Bank, societe anonyme.

Certificated Security  means a  certificated security  within the meaning of the applicable
UCC.

Certificate of Title  means, with respect to any Leased Vehicle, the certificate of title or
other evidence of ownership of such Leased Vehicle duly issued by the government department or
agency in the jurisdiction in which such Leased Vehicle is registered in accordance with the
certificate of title act or statute of the jurisdiction applicable to such Leased Vehicle or, to
the extent that a certificate of title or other evidence of ownership has not been issued, the
application (or copy thereof) for the foregoing.

Charged-Off Lease  means a Master Lease Agreement or Consumer Lease that was or should have
been charged off by the Servicer as uncollectible in accordance with the Policies.

Charged-Off Receivable  means a Fleet Receivable that was or should have been charged off by
the Servicer as uncollectible in accordance with the Policies.

Charge-Off Ratio  means, for any specified Settlement Date, twelve times the quotient,
expressed as a percentage, of (a) Aggregate Net

-5- 

Lease Losses for the preceding Monthly Period, divided by (b) the Aggregate Lease Balance as
of the last day of the second preceding Monthly Period.

Chase  means The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking corporation.

Class  means, with respect to any Series of Notes, any one of the classes of Notes of that
Series as specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Clearing Agency  means an organization registered as a  clearing agency  pursuant to Section
17A of the Exchange Act.

Clearing Agency Participant  means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or
other Person for whom from time to time a Clearing Agency or a Foreign Clearing Agency effects
book-entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Clearing Agency or the Foreign
Clearing Agency.

Closed-End Lease  means a lease obligation in respect of a single vehicle which may arise
pursuant to a master lease agreement providing for the lease of a fleet of vehicles or pursuant to
a lease agreement providing for the lease of a single vehicle that, in each case, allows the lessee
thereunder to return the vehicle subject thereto to the lessor at or prior to lease termination and
obligates the lessee thereunder to pay to the lessor at lease termination only Incidental Lease
Termination Charges.

Closing Date  means the Initial Closing Date or any Series Closing Date.

Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, reformed or otherwise modified
from time to time, and any successor statute of similar import, in each case as in effect from time
to time. References to sections of the Code also refer to any successor sections.

Collateral  is defined in Section 3.1 of the Base Indenture.

Collection Account  is defined in Section 5.1 of the Base Indenture.

Collections  means (a) all payments on the Collateral, including, without limitation, (i) all
monthly lease payments and other lease payments on the Unit Leases, (ii) all proceeds from the sale
or other disposition of Unit Vehicles, including Recoveries, (iii) all insurance proceeds and
warranty payments with respect to Unit Vehicles, (iv) all termination payments and Incidental Lease
Termination Payments received in

-6- 

respect of the Unit Leases, (v) all other payments in respect of the Unit Leases, (vi) all
payments in respect of the Fleet Receivables and payments by VMS under the Receivable Purchase
Agreement, (vii) all payments by VMS or PHH Consumer Lease under the Asset Sale Agreement and
(viii) all payments in respect of any Hedging Instruments in the Collateral relating to any Series
of Investor Notes, whether such payments are in the form of cash, checks, wire transfers or other
forms of payment and (b) all amounts earned on Permitted Investments of funds in the Collection
Account and, to the extent so specified in an Indenture Supplement, in a Series Account.

Common Member  means SPV, as the holder of the Common Membership Interest.

Common Membership Interest  means the Common Membership Interest issued pursuant to the LLC
Agreement.

Consumer Lease  means an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease originated by PHH Consumer
Lease, individually or on behalf of the Origination Trust, that is in all material respects in a
form attached to the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement.

Contingent Obligation  as applied to any Person, means any direct or indirect liability,
contingent or otherwise, of that Person (a) with respect to any indebtedness, lease, dividend,
letter of credit or other obligation of another if the primary purpose or intent thereof by the
Person incurring the Contingent Obligation is to provide assurance to the obligee of such
obligation of another that such obligation of another will be paid or discharged, or that any
agreements relating thereto will be complied with, or that the holders of such obligation will be
protected (in whole or in part) against loss in respect thereof or (b) under any letter of credit
issued for the account of that Person or for which that Person is otherwise liable for
reimbursement thereof. Contingent Obligation shall include (a) the direct or indirect guarantee,
endorsement (otherwise than for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business),
co-making, discounting with recourse or sale with recourse by such Person of the obligation of
another and (b) any liability of such Person for the obligations of another through any agreement
(contingent or otherwise) (i) to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire such obligation or any
security therefor, or to provide funds for the payment or discharge of such obligation (whether in
the form of loans, advances, stock purchases, capital contributions or otherwise), (ii) to maintain
the solvency of any balance sheet item, level of income or financial condition of another or (iii)
to make take-or-pay or similar payments if required regardless of non-performance by any other
party or parties to an agreement, if in the case of any agreement described under subclause (i) or
(ii) of this sentence the primary purpose or intent thereof is as described in the preceding
sentence. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be equal to the amount of the obligation so
guaranteed or otherwise supported.

-7- 

Contractual Obligation  means, with respect to any Person, any provision of any security
issued by that Person or of any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, contract, undertaking,
agreement or other instrument to which that Person is a party or by which it or any of its
properties is bound or to which it or any of its properties is subject.

Control  means (a) with respect to a Security Entitlement, the Indenture Trustee (i) is
identified in the records of the Securities Intermediary for such Security Entitlement as the
person having such Security Entitlement against such Security Intermediary or (ii) has obtained the
agreement, in writing, of the Securities Intermediary for such Security Entitlement that it will
comply with orders of the Indenture Trustee regarding the transfer or redemption of such Security
Entitlement without further consent of any other person; or (b) with respect to a United States
Security Entitlement, (i) the Indenture Trustee is a participant in the book entry system
maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank that is acting as a fiscal agent for the issuer of such
United States Security Entitlement and such Federal Reserve Bank has indicated by book entry that
such United States Securities Entitlement has been credited to the Indenture Trustee s securities
account in such book entry system or (ii) (A) the Indenture Trustee (x) is identified in the
records of the Securities Intermediary for such United States Security Entitlement as the person
having such Security Entitlement against such Securities Intermediary or (y) has obtained the
agreement, in writing, of the Securities Intermediary for such Security Entitlement that it will
comply with orders of the Indenture Trustee regarding the transfer or redemption of such Security
Entitlement without further consent of any other person, (B) the Securities Intermediary for such
United States Securities Entitlement is a participant in the book entry system maintained by the
Federal Reserve Bank that is acting as fiscal agent for the issuer of such United States Securities
Entitlement and (C) such Federal Reserve Bank has indicated by book entry that such United States
Securities Entitlement has been credited to such Securities Intermediary s securities account in
such book entry system.

Contribution Agreement  means the Contribution Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing
Date, between SPV and the Origination Trust, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time
in accordance with its terms.

Controlled Group  means, with respect to any Person, such Person, whether or not
incorporated, and any corporation, trade or business that is, along with such Person, a member of a
controlled group of corporations or a controlled group of trades or businesses, as described in
Sections 414(b) and (c), respectively of the Code.

Corporate Trust Office  means the principal office of the Indenture Trustee at which at any
particular time its corporate trust

-8- 

business shall be administered, which office at the date of the execution of the Indenture is
located at 450 West 33rd Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY 10001-2597, Att: Capital Markets
Fiduciary Services   VMS Auto Lease Backed Securitization.

Cost  means, with respect to any Paid-In Advance Vehicle, the price paid for such Vehicle to
the dealer, the manufacturer or the vendor selling such Vehicle, plus delivery charges and taxes
and any registration or titling fees.

Coupon  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture.

CP Rate  means the rate on commercial paper for each day set forth in Statistical Release
H.15(519),  Selected Interest Rates  published by the Board Of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System.

Credit Enhancement  means, with respect to any Series of Investor Notes, the subordination,
cash collateral account, collateral interest, letter of credit, surety bond, insurance policy,
spread account, reserve account, cross-support feature, interest rate swap, currency swap or any
other contract or agreement for the benefit of the holder of the Investor Notes of such Series as
designated in the related Indenture Supplement.

Custodian Agreement  means the Custodian Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, by
and among the Custodian, the Servicer and the Origination Trust, as amended, modified or
supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms, and any other Custodian Agreement
entered into in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Origination Trust Servicing
Agreement.

Custodian  means the party named as such in the Custodian Agreement until a successor
replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Custodian Agreement and thereafter
means the successor serving thereunder.

Default  means any occurrence that is, or with notice or the lapse of time or both would
become, an Event of Default.

Definitions List  means this Definitions List, as amended or modified from time to time.

Definitive Notes  is defined in Section 2.10 of the Base Indenture.

Delinquency Ratio  means, for any specified Settlement Date, the quotient, expressed as a
percentage, of (a) the aggregate billings with respect to all Leases and all Fleet Receivables
which were unpaid for 60

-9- 

days or more from the original due date thereof as of the last day of the immediately
preceding Monthly Period divided by (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate billings with respect to all
Leases and all Fleet Receivables which were unpaid as of the last day of the second preceding
Monthly Period and (ii) the aggregate amount billed with respect to all Leases and all Fleet
Receivables during the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Delivery  means (a) with respect to any Physical Property (that is not either a United States
Security Entitlement or a Security Entitlement), physical delivery thereof to the Indenture Trustee
or its nominee or custodian by an effective endorsement, or registered in the name of, the
Indenture Trustee or its nominee or custodian endorsed in blank and (b) with respect to any
Uncertificated Security, the issuer thereof registers the Indenture Trustee as the registered owner
thereof or the Indenture Trustee otherwise satisfies the requirements of Revised Article 8.

Depository  is defined in Section 2.10 of the Base Indenture.

Depository Agreement  means, with respect to a Series having Book-Entry Notes, the agreement
among the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and the Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency, or
as otherwise provided in the related Indenture Supplement.

Deposit Date  means each Business Day on which Collections are deposited into the Collection
Account.

Deposit Report  is defined in Section 4.1 of the Base Indenture.

Determination Date  means the second Business Day prior to each Settlement Date.

Dividend Rate  means, with respect to each series of Preferred Membership Interests, the rate
at which distributions of interest with respect to such Preferred Membership Interests are made.

Dollar  and the symbol  $  mean the lawful currency of the United States.

Eligible Consumer Lease  means a Consumer Lease that as of the date allocated to the Lease
SUBI Portfolio satisfied the following eligibility criteria:

a. it was not a Charged-Off Lease;

b. it was not an Ineligible Delinquent Lease;

-10- 

c. it was an obligation of an Eligible Obligor;

d. it had an initial term of 60 months or less;

e. it was denominated and payable only in Dollars in the United States;

f. it was originated and has been administered since origination in accordance with
Applicable Law;

g. it was originated in accordance with the Policies;

h. it did not contravene in any material respect any Applicable Law and VMS or PHH
Consumer Lease is not in violation in any material respect of any Applicable Law in
connection with it;

i. it was not subject to any dispute in whole or in part or to any offset,
counterclaim, defense, rescission, recoupment or subordination;

j. it was the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Obligor thereunder,
enforceable against such Obligor to pay the full amount thereof in accordance with its
terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors 
rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by
proceedings in equity or law);

k. the Origination Trust has only one  original  counterpart of such Consumer Lease
and such original is held by the Custodian;

l. it is either an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease;

m. it is a  hell or high water  net lease under which the Obligor s payment
obligations thereunder are absolute, unconditional and noncancellable and not subject to
abatement or adjustment;

n. the Obligor thereunder is required to maintain casualty insurance with respect to
the related Leased Vehicle in accordance with the Policies;

o. any consents, approvals or authorizations necessary for the assignment and sale
thereof by PHH Consumer Lease to SPV and by SPV to the Origination Trust have been
obtained;

-11- 

p. if not originated by the Origination Trust, all right, title and interest in it
has been validly sold by PHH Consumer Lease to SPV pursuant to the Asset Sale Agreement
and validly assigned by SPV to the Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution
Agreement;

q. the Obligor of which has accepted the related Leased Vehicle;

r. it provides for equal monthly depreciation payments and accrues a finance or
other lease charge on the Net Book Value of the related Leased Vehicle at a floating rate
at least equal to the CP Rate from time to time or at a fixed rate;

s. if a Closed-End Lease, the Stated Residual Value of the related Leased Vehicle
was no greater than the ALG Residual Value thereof at origination;

t. if a Fixed Rate Lease, on or before the date on which such Fixed Rate Lease was
allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio, the Issuer held any Lease Rate Cap with respect to
such Fixed Rate Lease required to be held by the Issuer by the terms of any Indenture
Supplement;

u. if a Floating Rate Lease, the Obligor thereunder has no right to convert the
floating rate at which the finance charges accrue thereunder to a fixed rate; and

v. the Leased Vehicle leased thereunder (x) is free and clear of all Liens (other
than Permitted Liens) and (y) the Certificate of Title for such Leased Vehicle is
registered in the name of the Origination Trust and indicates only a Lien in the name
of (1) PHH Consumer Lease, in the case of a Consumer Lease originated by PHH Consumer
Lease and assigned to the Origination Trust or a Consumer Lease originated by the
Origination Trust prior to July 15, 1999 or (2) SPV, in the case of all other Consumer
Leases (or, such a Certificate of Title has been applied for).

Eligible Counterparty  means a financial institution having on the date of any acquisition of
a Hedging Instrument commercial paper or short-term deposit ratings which are equal to or higher
than A-1 by Standard   Poor s and P-1 by Moody s and unsecured debt ratings which are equal to or
higher than A by Standard   Poor s and A2 by Moody s and who, in the event that its commercial
paper or short-term deposit ratings are reduced below such ratings, agrees to secure its
obligations under such Hedging Instrument.

Eligible Deposit Account  means (a) a segregated identifiable trust account established in
the trust department of a Qualified

-12- 

Trust Institution or (b) a separately identifiable deposit account established in the deposit
taking department of a Qualified Institution.

Eligible Lease  means a Lease that as of the date allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio was
either an Eligible Consumer Lease or a Lease arising under an Eligible Master Lease that satisfied
the following eligibility criteria:

(a) it had an initial term of 120 months or less;

(b) the Obligor of which has accepted the related Leased Vehicle;

(c) it provides for equal monthly depreciation payments and accrues a finance or
other lease charge on the Net Book Value of the related Leased Vehicle at a floating rate
at least equal to the CP Rate from time to time or at a fixed rate;

(d) if a Closed-End Lease, the Stated Residual Value of the related Leased Vehicle
was no greater than the ALG Residual Value thereof at origination;

(e) if a Fixed Rate Lease, on or before the date on which such Fixed Rate Lease was
allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio, the Issuer held any Lease Rate Cap with respect to
such Fixed Rate Lease required to be held by the terms of any Indenture Supplement;

(f) if a Floating Rate Lease and the Obligor thereunder has the right to convert the
floating rate at which the finance charges accrue thereunder to a fixed rate, upon
conversion the fixed rate will be at least equal to the sum of the PHH Treasury Note Rate
on the conversion date and 0.50%; and

(h) the Leased Vehicle leased thereunder (x) is free and clear of all Liens (other
than Permitted Liens), (y) if such Leased Vehicle is subject to a certificate of title act
or statute, the Certificate of Title for such Leased Vehicle is registered in the
name of the Origination Trust and indicates only a Lien in the name of (1) VMS, in the
case of a Lease originated by VMS and assigned to the Origination Trust or a Lease
originated by the Origination Trust prior to July 15, 1999 or (2) SPV, in the case of all
other Leases (or, such a Certificate of Title has been applied for) or (z) if such
Leased Vehicle is not subject to a certificate of title act or statute, all filings
necessary to evidence the security interest of (1) VMS, in the case of a Lease originated
by VMS and assigned to the Origination Trust or (2) SPV, in the case of all other Leases,
in such Leased Vehicle have been made in all appropriate jurisdictions.

-13- 

Eligible Master Lease  will mean each Master Lease Agreement that as of the date the first
Lease thereunder was allocated to the Lease SUBI satisfied the following eligibility criteria:

(a) it was not a Charged-Off Lease;

(b) it was not an Ineligible Delinquent Lease;

(c) it was an obligation of an Eligible Obligor;

(d) it was denominated and payable only in Dollars in the United States;

(e) it was originated and has been administered since origination in accordance with
Applicable Law;

(f) it was originated in accordance with the Policies;

(g) it did not contravene in any material respect any Applicable Law and VMS is not
in violation in any material respect of any Applicable Law in connection with it;

(h) it was not subject to any dispute in whole or in part or to any offset,
counterclaim, defense, rescission, recoupment or subordination;

(i) it was the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Obligor thereunder,
enforceable against such Obligor to pay the full amount thereof in accordance with its
terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors 
rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by
proceedings in equity or law);

(j) the Origination Trust has only one  original  counterpart of such Master Lease
Agreement and such original is held by the Custodian;

(k) it is either an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease;

(l) it is a  hell or high water  net lease under which the Obligor s payment
obligations thereunder are absolute, unconditional and noncancellable and not subject to
abatement or adjustment;

(m) the Obligor thereunder is required to maintain casualty insurance or to
self-insure with respect to the related Leased Vehicles in accordance with the Policies;

-14- 

(n) any consents, approvals or authorizations necessary for the assignment and sale
thereof by VMS to the Origination Trust have been obtained; and

(o) if not originated by the Origination Trust, all right, title and interest in it
has been validly sold to the Origination Trust by VMS pursuant to that certain Assignment
and Assumption Agreement dated December 17, 1998 or validly assigned to the
Origination Trust by SPV pursuant to the Contribution Agreement and, if assigned by SPV to
the Origination Trust, was validly sold by VMS to SPV pursuant to the Asset Sale
Agreement.

Eligible Obligor  means each Obligor in respect of a Master Lease Agreement, a Consumer Lease
or a Fleet Receivable that satisfies the following eligibility criteria:

(a) its billing address is located in the United States;

(b) it is not the United States federal government, or any subdivision thereof, or
any agency, department or instrumentality thereof;

(c) it is not an Affiliate of ARAC; and

(d) it is not the subject of any voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceeding,
unless, in the case of a Master Lease Agreement, a bankruptcy court shall have entered an
order reaffirming such Obligor s obligations under such Master Lease Agreement.

Eligible Receivables  means, as of any date of determination, each Fleet Receivable that
satisfies the following eligibility criteria:

(a) it is an obligation of an Eligible Obligor;

(b) it is not a Charged-Off Receivable;

(c) it is denominated and payable only in Dollars in the United States;

(d) it and the related Fleet Service Contract do not contravene in any material
respect any Applicable Law and VMS is not in violation in any material respect of any
Applicable Law in connection with it or the related Fleet Service Contract;

(e) the related Fleet Service Contract was originated in accordance with the
Policies;

-15- 

(f) it has been billed, the goods or services giving rise to it have been provided
and it is payable within 45 days of the billing date;

(g) it is an  eligible asset  within the meaning of Rule 3a-7 promulgated under the
Investment Company Act;

(h) it is not subject to the laws of any jurisdiction whose laws would prohibit the
assignment and sale thereof by VMS to SPV pursuant to the Receivable Purchase Agreement
and the contribution thereof by SPV to the Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution
Agreement;

(i) any consents, approvals or authorizations necessary for the assignment and sale
thereof by VMS to SPV pursuant to the Receivable Purchase Agreement and the contribution
thereof by SPV to the Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution Agreement have
been obtained with respect to such Fleet Receivable;

(j) all right, title and interest in it has been validly sold by VMS to SPV pursuant
to the Receivable Purchase Agreement and validly assigned by SPV to the Origination Trust
pursuant to the Contribution Agreement;

(k) the Origination Trust has legal and beneficial ownership therein free and clear
of all Liens other than Permitted Liens;

(l) it is not subject to any dispute in whole or in part or to any offset,
counterclaim, defense, rescission, recoupment or subordination;

(m) it is at all times the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Obligor
thereon, enforceable against such Obligor to pay the full amount thereof in accordance
with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of
creditors  rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is
sought by proceedings in equity or law); and

(n) it constitutes an  account  or a  general intangible  under the applicable UCC.

Enhancement Provider  means, with respect to any Series, the Person, if any, designated as
such in the related Indenture Supplement.

-16- 

ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any
successor statute of similar import, in each case as in effect from time to time. References to
sections of ERISA also refer to any successor sections.

Euroclear  means Euroclear System.

Event of Default  is defined in Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture.

Excess Consumer Lease Amount  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual
Period, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible
Leases that are Consumer Leases allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day of the
Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (b) an amount equal
to 1.0% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date.

Excess Damage Charges  means the charges under a Lease due to damage to the related Leased
Vehicle over a prescribed limit.

Excess Longer-Term Lease Amount  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual
Period, an amount equal to the greater of (a) the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Lease
Balance of all Eligible Leases having remaining terms of longer than five years allocated to the
Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day
of such Accrual Period over (ii) an amount equal to 15% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such
date and (b) the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible Leases having
remaining terms of longer than seven years allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day
of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (ii) an
amount equal to 5% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date.

Excess Mileage Charges  means the charges under a Lease due to mileage on the related Leased
Vehicle over a prescribed limit.

Excess Paid-In-Advance Amount  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual
Period, an amount equal to the greatest of (a) the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Cost of
each Paid-In Advance Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day of the
Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period (or, if any such Paid-In
Advance Vehicle was allocated to the Lease SUBI after the last day of such Monthly Period, the Cost
thereof as of the date such Paid-In Advance Vehicle was allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio) over
(ii) an amount equal to 10% of the Aggregate Unit Balance as of such date, (b) the excess, if any,
of (i) the aggregate Cost of each Paid-In Advance

  -17- 

Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio for more than 60 days as of the last day of the
Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (ii) an amount equal
to 2.5% of the Aggregate Unit Balance as of such date and (c) the aggregate Cost of each Paid-In
Advance Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio for more than 120 days as of the last day of
the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period.

Excess Residual Value Amount  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual
Period, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the Aggregate Residual Value Amount as of
such date over (ii) an amount equal to 10% of the Aggregate Unit Balance as of such date.

Excess State Obligor Risk Amount  means, as of any date of determination during an Accrual
Period, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible
Leases the Obligor of which is a state or local government or any subdivision thereof, or any
agency, department or instrumentality thereof allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last
day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (b) an
amount equal to 3.0% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date.

Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Existing Liens  means a claim for $914,160,108.23 owing to The Chase Manhattan Bank.

Expected Final Distribution Date  means, with respect to any applicable Series of Investor
Notes, the date stated in the related Indenture Supplement as the date on which such Series of
Investor Notes is expected to be paid in full.

FDIC  means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Fixed Rate Lease  means a Lease accruing finance charges at a fixed rate per annum.

Fleet Receivables  means all amounts payable under the Fleet Service Contracts, a beneficial
interest in a portion of which is represented by the Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate.

Fleet Receivable SUBI  means that special unit of beneficial interest in the Origination
Trust created by the Fleet Receivable SUBI Supplement in a pool of Fleet Receivables acquired by
SPV from VMS pursuant to the Receivable Purchase Agreement and contributed by SPV to the
Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution Agreement and all Origination

  -18- 

Trust Assets associated with the Fleet Receivables, including all right, title and interest of
SPV under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.

Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate  means the Class X 1999- 1B Sold SUBI Certificate, a
certificate of beneficial ownership, representing a portion of the Fleet Receivable SUBI issued
pursuant to the Fleet Receivable SUBI Supplement.

Fleet Receivable SUBI Supplement  means the Sold SUBI Supplement 1999-1B to the Origination
Trust Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, among SPV, as settlor and initial
beneficiary, VMS, as UTI Trustee and Servicer, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Delaware Trustee
and SUBI Trustee.

Fleet Service Contract  means a fleet maintenance contract, fleet management contract, fuel
card contract or any other service contract the fees for which are billed or would be billed by
VMS, together with the Leases.

Floating Rate Lease  means a Lease accruing finance charges at a floating rate per annum.

Foreign Clearing Agency  means Cedel and Euroclear.

GAAP  means the generally accepted accounting principles promulgated or adopted by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board and its predecessors and successors from time to time.

Gain on Sale Account  is defined in Section 5.2 of the Base Indenture.

Global Note  is defined in Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture.

Governmental Authority  means the United States of America, any state or other political
subdivision thereof and any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or
administrative functions of or pertaining to government.

Hedging Instrument  means one or more interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap
agreements or similar contracts entered into by, or assigned to, the Issuer in connection with the
issuance of a Series of Investor Notes, as specified in the related Indenture Supplement, providing
limited protection against interest rate risks.

Hypothetical Yield Shortfall Amount  means, for any Settlement Date, an amount equal to the
product of (x) the excess, if any, of

  -19- 

the Minimum Yield Rate for such Settlement Date over the CP Rate as of the last day of the
immediately preceding Monthly Period, (y) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Floating Rate Leases
as of the last day of the immediately preceding Monthly Period and (z) 2.75.

Incidental Lease Termination Charges  means all Excess Damage Charges, Excess Mileage Charges
and any charges imposed upon the early termination of a Lease.

Indebtedness , as applied to any Person, means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness for
borrowed money, (b) that portion of obligations with respect to any lease of any property (whether
real, personal or mixed) that is properly classified as a liability on a balance sheet in
conformity with GAAP, (c) notes payable and drafts accepted representing extensions of credit
whether or not representing obligations for borrowed money, (d) any obligation owed for all or any
part of the deferred purchase price for property or services, which purchase price is (i) due more
than six months from the date of the incurrence of the obligation in respect thereof or (ii)
evidenced by a note or similar written instrument, (e) all indebtedness secured by any Lien on any
property or asset owned by that Person regardless of whether the indebtedness secured thereby shall
have been assumed by that Person or is nonrecourse to the credit of that Person, and (f) without
duplicating any of the foregoing, all Contingent Obligations of such Person in respect of any of
the foregoing.

Indenture  means the Base Indenture and all amendments thereof and supplements thereto,
including any Indenture Supplement.

Indenture Supplement  means, with respect to any Series of Investor Notes, a supplement to
the Base Indenture complying with the terms of Section 2.2 of the Base Indenture, executed in
conjunction with any issuance of any Series of Investor Notes (or, in the case of the issuance of
Investor Notes on the Initial Closing Date, the supplement executed in connection with the issuance
of such Notes).

Indenture Trustee  means the party named as such in the Indenture until a successor replaces
it in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture and thereafter means the successor
serving thereunder.

Independent  means, when used with respect to any specified Person, that the person (a) is in
fact independent of the Issuer, any other obligor upon the Investor Notes, VMS and any Affiliate of
any of the foregoing persons, (b) does not have any direct financial interest or any material
indirect financial interest in the Issuer, any such other obligor, VMS or any Affiliate of any of
the foregoing Persons and (c) is not connected with the Issuer, any such other obligor, VMS or any
Affiliate of any of the

  -20- 

foregoing Persons as an officer, employee, promoter, underwriter, trustee, partner, director
or Person performing similar functions.

Independent Certificate  means a certificate or opinion to be delivered to the Indenture
Trustee under the circumstances described in, and otherwise complying with, the applicable
requirements of Section 13.1, of the Base Indenture made by an Independent engineer, appraiser or
other expert appointed by the Issuer and approved by the Indenture Trustee in the exercise of
reasonable care, and such opinion or certificate shall state that the signer has read the
definition of  Independent  herein and that the signer is Independent within the meaning thereof.
the Base Indenture.

Independent Manager  is defined in the LLC Agreement.

Ineligible Delinquent Lease  means (a) a Master Lease Agreement as to which 50% or greater of
the billings to the Obligor thereof remain unpaid for more than 60 days from the original due date
or which has been declared in default under the Policies or (b) a Consumer Lease as to which any
amounts remain unpaid for more than 60 days from the original due date or which has been declared
in default under the Policies.

Initial Aggregate Lease Balance  means $2,504,471,579.

Initial Assignment  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Transfer Agreement.

Initial Closing Date  means June 30, 1999.

Initial Cut-off Date  means June 18, 1999.

Initial Invested Amount  means, with respect to any Series of Investor Notes, the aggregate
initial principal amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Initial Units  means, as of the Initial Closing Date, all Units allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio as of the Initial Closing Date.

Insolvency Event  means, as to any Person:

(a)(i) a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for
relief in respect of such Person in an involuntary case under the Bankruptcy Code or any
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in
effect, which decree or order is not stayed, or any other similar relief shall be granted
under any applicable federal or state law, (ii) an involuntary case is commenced against
such Person under any

-21- 

applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or
hereafter in effect which remains undismissed, undischarged or
unbonded for a period of 60 days or (iii) such Person shall have a
decree or an order for relief entered with respect to it or commence
a voluntary case under the Bankruptcy Code or any applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in
effect;

(b) such Person shall consent to the appointment of a
conservator or receiver or liquidator in any insolvency, readjustment
of debt, marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings
of or relating to all or substantially all of its property, or a
decree or order of a court or agency or supervisory authority having
jurisdiction in the premises for the appointment of a conservator or
receiver or liquidator in any insolvency, readjustment of debt,
marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings, or for
the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs, shall have been entered
against such Person; or such Person shall admit in writing its
inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, file a
petition to take advantage of any applicable insolvency or
reorganization statute, make an assignment for the benefit of its
creditors or voluntarily suspend payment of its obligations.

Interest Period  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the period specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Invested Amount  means, with respect to each Series of
Investor Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Invested Percentage  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the percentage specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Investment Company Act  means the Investment Company Act of
1940, as amended.

Investor Noteholder  and  Holder  means the Person in whose
name an Investor Note is registered in the Note Register.

Investor Notes  means any one of the promissory notes
(including, without limitation, the Bearer Notes, the Registered Notes or the
Global Notes) issued by the Issuer, executed by the Issuer and authenticated
by the Indenture Trustee substantially in the form (or forms in the case of a
Series of Notes with multiple Classes) of the investor note attached to the
related Indenture Supplement.

Issuer  means Greyhound Funding LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company.

-22- 

Issuer Accounts  means the Collection Account and each
Series Account.

Issuer Assets  means all assets of the Issuer, including,
among other things, the SUBIs, the SUBI Certificates (including all rights of
the holder thereof under the Origination Trust Documents), the Units, any
Hedging Instruments, the Transfer Agreement, the Administration Agreement,
the Management Agreement and all proceeds of the foregoing.

Issuer General Account  is defined in the LLC Agreement.

Issuer Obligations  means all principal and interest, at
any time and from time to time, owing by the Issuer on the Investor Notes and
all costs, fees and expenses payable by, or obligations of, the Issuer under
the Indenture.

Issuer Order  and  Issuer Request  means a written order or
request signed in the name of the Issuer by any one of its Authorized
Officers and delivered to the Indenture Trustee.

Lease Balance  means, as of any date of determination, with
respect to (a) any Open-End Lease, an amount equal to the Net Book Value of
the Leased Vehicle subject to such Lease and (b) any Closed-End Lease, an
amount equal to the sum of all remaining monthly lease payments (other than
payments of finance charges and other incidental fees) due in respect of such
Leased Vehicle on or after such date; provided, however that the Lease
Balance of a Charged-Off Lease shall be zero.

Lease Balance Decline  means, for any Lease for any
Settlement Date, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the Lease Balance of such
Lease as of the last day of the Monthly Period preceding the Monthly Period
immediately preceding such Settlement Date less the Lease Balance of such
Lease as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding such
Settlement Date plus (b), in the case of a Closed-End Lease, the Net Book
Value of the related Unit Vehicle if such Unit Vehicle shall have become a
Residual Value Vehicle during the Monthly Period immediately preceding such
Settlement Date.

Lease  means an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease
originated by or on behalf of VMS or the Origination Trust pursuant to a
Master Lease Agreement or a Consumer Lease originated by or on behalf of VMS
or the Origination Trust.

Leased Vehicle  means the Vehicle subject to a Lease.

-23- 

Lease Rate Cap  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the interest rate caps that are required to be maintained by
the Issuer pursuant to the related Indenture Supplement.

Lease SUBI  means that special unit of beneficial interest
in the Origination Trust created by the Lease SUBI Supplement.

Lease SUBI Certificate  means the certificate of beneficial
ownership, representing beneficial ownership in the Sold Units allocated to
the Lease SUBI Portfolio issued pursuant to the Lease SUBI Supplement.

Lease SUBI Portfolio  or  1999-1A Sold SUBI Portfolio 
means the Origination Trust Assets that are from time to time allocated to
the Lease SUBI in accordance with the terms of the Origination Trust
Documents.

Lease SUBI Supplement  means the Sold SUBI Supplement 1999-
1A to the Origination Trust Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date,
among SPV, as settlor and initial beneficiary, VMS, as UTI Trustee and
Servicer, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Delaware Trustee and SUBI Trustee.

Lien  means, when used with respect to any Person, any
interest in any real or personal property, asset or other right held, owned
or being purchased or acquired by such Person which secures payment or
performance of any obligation, and shall include any mortgage, lien, pledge,
encumbrance, charge, retained security title of a conditional vendor or
lessor, or other security interest of any kind, whether arising under a
security agreement, mortgage, lease, deed of trust, chattel mortgage, assign-
ment, pledge, retention or security title, financing or similar statement, or
notice or arising as a matter of law, judicial process or otherwise.

LLC Agreement  means the Limited Liability Agreement of the
Issuer, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, as amended, modified or
supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms.

Luxembourg Agent  is defined in Section 2.3(c) of the Base
Indenture.

Majority in Interest  of each Series of Investor Notes
means Noteholders of such Series holding Investor Notes evidencing more than
50% by outstanding principal amount of each Class of Investor Notes of such
Series.

Management Agreement  means the Management Agreement, dated
as of the Initial Closing Date, by and among the Managing Agent, the Issuer
and the Administrator, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time
in accordance with its terms.

-24- 

Manager  is defined in the LLC Agreement.

Managing Agent  means Global Securitization Services LLC or
a successor Managing Agent under the Management Agreement.

Master Lease Agreement  means each master lease agreement
between an Obligor and VMS and assigned by VMS to the Origination Trust or
assigned by VMS to SPV and by SPV to the Origination Trust or between an
Obligor and the Origination Trust, in each case, in all material respects in
a form attached to the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement.

Material Adverse Effect  means, with respect to any
occurrence, event or condition:

(i) a material adverse effect on the Issuer s title to the
SUBI Certificates or the beneficial interest in the Sold Units or
Fleet Receivables represented thereby;

(ii) a material adverse effect on the validity, status,
perfection or priority of the Lien of the Indenture Trustee in the
Collateral;

(iii) a material adverse effect on the business, properties,
financial condition or results of operations of the Issuer or the
ability of the Issuer to perform its obligations under the Indenture;

(iv) a material adverse effect on the business, properties,
financial condition or results of operations of ARAC and its
subsidiaries as a whole; or

(v) a material adverse effect on the validity or
enforceability of the Indenture or any of the other Transaction
Documents.

Maximum Invested Amount  means, with respect to each Series
of Investor Notes, the amount, if any, specified in the related Indenture
Supplement.

Member  means a Preferred Member or the Common Member.

Membership Interest  means a Preferred Membership Interest
or the Common Membership Interest.

Minimum Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance  means the sum of
the numerators used on such date to calculate the Invested Percentage with

-25- 

respect to Collections for all Series of Outstanding Investor Notes on such
date.

Minimum Yield Rate  means, for any Settlement Date, a rate
per annum equal to the sum of (i) the Weighted Average Cost of Funds for such
Settlement Date, (ii) the Weighted Average Servicing Fee Percentage for such
Settlement Date and (iii) 0.25%.

Monthly Period  means, unless otherwise defined in any
Indenture Supplement, the period from and including a Period End Date (or, in
the case of the initial Monthly Period, from the Initial Cutoff Date) to but
excluding the succeeding Period End Date.

Monthly Residual Value Gain  means, for any Monthly Period,
an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) all Termination Proceeds
received by the Servicer during such Monthly Period for all Unit Vehicles
that became Residual Value Vehicles during such Monthly Period and all prior
Monthly Periods over (b) the aggregate Net Book Values of all Unit Vehicles
that became Residual Value Vehicles during such Monthly Period.

Monthly Residual Value Loss  means, for any Monthly Period,
an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate Net Book Values
of all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles during such Monthly
Period over (b) all Termination Proceeds received by the Servicer during such
Monthly Period for all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles
during such Monthly Period and all prior Monthly Periods.

Monthly Servicer Advance  means the aggregate amount of
funds advanced by the Servicer to the Issuer on any Settlement Date for
deposit in the Collection Account in respect of monthly lease payments due
but not received during the immediately preceding Monthly Period on the Sold
Units and in respect of Fleet Receivables due but not received during the
immediately preceding Monthly Period in accordance with the Series 1999-1
SUBI Servicing Supplement.

Monthly Servicer Advance Reimbursement Amount  means, on
any Settlement Date, the aggregate amount payable to the Servicer in
reimbursement of amounts previously advanced by the Servicer in respect of
delinquent monthly lease payments and delinquent Fleet Receivables pursuant
to Section 7.4 of the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement on such
Settlement Date.

Monthly Settlement Statement  means, with respect to each
Series of Outstanding Investor Notes, the settlement statement in the form
attached to the related Indenture Supplement delivered by the Issuer to the
Indenture Trustee pursuant to Section 4.4(a) of the Base Indenture.

-26- 

Moody s  means Moody s Investors Service, Inc.

Net Book Value  means, as of any date of determination
during an Accrual Period with respect to each Leased Vehicle, such Leased
Vehicle s Capitalized Cost minus the sum of all monthly lease payments billed
thereunder (other than payments of finance charges and other incidental
fees) in respect of such Leased Vehicle through such date.

1999-1B Invested Amount  is defined in the Fleet Receivable
SUBI Supplement.

1999-1B Sold SUBI Portfolio  means the Origination Trust
Assets that are from time to time allocated to the Fleet Receivable SUBI in
accordance with the terms of the Origination Trust Documents.

Note Rate  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes, the annual rate at which interest accrues on the Investor Notes of
such Series of Investor Notes (or formula on the basis of which such rate
shall be determined) as stated in the related Indenture Supplement.

Note Register  means the register maintained pursuant to
Section 2.4(a) of the Base Indenture, providing for the registration of the
Investor Notes and transfers and exchanges thereof.

Obligor  means, with respect to any Lease or Fleet
Receivable, the Person or Persons obligated to make payment with respect to
such Lease or Fleet Receivable, including any guarantor thereof.

Officer s Certificate  means a certificate signed by an
Authorized Officer of the Issuer, SPV, the Origination Trust, the Servicer or
the Administrator, as the case may be.

Open-End Lease  means a lease obligation in respect of a
single vehicle which may arise pursuant to a master lease agreement providing
for the lease of a fleet of vehicles or pursuant to a lease agreement
providing for the lease of a single vehicle that, in each case, obligates the
lessee thereunder to pay the lessor at lease termination any deficit between
the sales proceeds from the sale of the vehicle subject thereto and the book
value thereof (other than the portion of any deficit resulting from the sales
proceeds being less than 16% of the fair market value thereof determined in
accordance with such lease).

Opinion of Counsel  means a written opinion from legal
counsel who is acceptable to the Indenture Trustee. The counsel may be an
employee of or counsel to the Issuer, SPV, VMS, the Origination Trust, the
Administrator or the Servicer, as the case may be.

-27- 

Origination Trust  means D.L. Peterson Trust, a statutory
business trust organized under the laws of the State of Delaware.

Origination Trust Agreement  means the Amended and Restated
Origination Trust Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, among SPV,
as settlor and initial beneficiary, VMS, as UTI Trustee, and Wilmington Trust
Company, as Delaware Trustee, as amended, supplemented and modified by the
Lease SUBI Supplement and the Fleet Receivable SUBI Supplement and as the
same may be further amended, supplemented or modified from time to time.

Origination Trust Assets  means all assets, at any time,
owned by the Origination Trust at such time.

Origination Trust Documents  means the Origination Trust
Agreement, including the Lease SUBI Supplement and the Fleet Receivable SUBI
Supplement, the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, including the Series
1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement, the Custodian Agreement, the SUBI
Certificates, the Receivable Purchase Agreement, the Asset Sale Agreement and
the Contribution Agreement.

Origination Trust Servicing Agreement  means the
Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date,
between the Origination Trust and the Servicer as amended, supplemented and
modified by the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement and as the same may
be further amended, supplemented or modified from time to time.

Outstanding  has the meaning, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, set forth in the related Indenture Supplement.

Overconcentration Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the greatest of
(a) the aggregate Lease Balance of the Eligible Leases to which the Obligors
having the five largest aggregate Lease Balances of Eligible Leases allocated
to the Lease SUBI Portfolio are a party as of the last day of the Monthly
Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (ii)
an amount equal to 15% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date, (b)
the aggregate Lease Balance of the Eligible Leases to which the Obligors
having the ten largest aggregate Lease Balances of Eligible Leases allocated
to the Lease SUBI Portfolio are a party as of the last day of the Monthly
Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (ii)
an amount equal to 25% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date and (c)
the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Lease Balance of the Eligible Leases
to which the Obligor having the largest aggregate Lease Balance of Eligible
Leases allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio is a party as of the last day of
the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period
over (ii) an amount equal to 4% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such
date; provided, however that if the long-term debt obligations of such

-28- 

Obligor are not rated at least Baa3 by Moody s as of such date, the amount in
this clause (ii) shall equal 3% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such
date.

Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio  means, for any specified
Settlement Date, the quotient, expressed as a percentage, of (a) the excess,
if any, of (i) the aggregate Cost of all Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles that
became Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles during the immediately preceding
Monthly Period over (ii) all Paid-In Advance Proceeds received by the
Servicer during the preceding Monthly Period for all Unit Paid-In Advance
Vehicles that became Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles during such Monthly
Period and all prior Monthly Periods divided by (b) the aggregate Cost of all
Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles that became Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles
during the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Paid-In Advance Proceeds  means for any Rejected Paid-In
Advance Vehicle the sum of all amounts received by the Servicer upon, after
or in connection with the sale or other disposition of such Rejected Paid-In
Advance Vehicle, net of any and all out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred
by the Servicer in connection with such sale or other disposition, and any
and all amounts received from the related Obligor in connection with such
Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicle.

Paid-In Advance Vehicle  means a Vehicle acquired at the
request of an Obligor who is either a party to a Master Lease Agreement or
who has agreed to be bound by a Master Lease Agreement but not yet accepted
by such Obligor.

Paying Agent  means any paying agent appointed pursuant to
Section 2.6 of the Base Indenture.

Payment Date  means, with respect to each Series of
Investor Notes, the dates set forth in the related Indenture Supplement.

PBGC  means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA.

Pension Plan  means any  employee pension benefit plan , as
such term is defined in ERISA, which is subject to Title IV of ERISA (other
than a  multiemployer plan , as defined in Section 4001 of ERISA) and to
which any company in the Controlled Group has liability, including any
liability by reason of having been a substantial employer within the meaning
of Section 4063 of ERISA for any time within the preceding five years or by
reason of being deemed to be a contributing sponsor under Section 4069 of
ERISA.

-29- 

Period End Date  means each date set forth in Schedule X to
the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement, as such schedule is amended and
supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms of the Series
1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement.

Permitted Investments  means negotiable instruments or
securities, payable in Dollars, issued by an entity organized under the laws
of the United States of America and represented by instruments in bearer or
registered or in book-entry form which evidence (excluding any security with
the  r  symbol attached to its rating):

(i) obligations the full and timely payment of which are to
be made by or is fully guaranteed by the United States of America
other than financial contracts whose value depends on the values or
indices of asset values;

(ii) demand deposits of, time deposits in, or certificates
of deposit issued by, any depositary institution or trust company
incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any
state thereof whose short-term debt is rated P-1 or higher by Moody s
and  A-1   or higher by Standard   Poor s and subject to supervision
and examination by Federal or state banking or depositary institution
authorities; provided, however, that at the earlier of (x) the time
of the investment and (y) the time of the contractual commitment to
invest therein, the certificates of deposit or short-term deposits,
if any, or long-term unsecured debt obligations (other than such
obligation whose rating is based on collateral or on the credit of a
Person other than such institution or trust company) of such
depositary institution or trust company shall have a credit rating
from Standard   Poor s of  A-1  , in the case of certificates of
deposit or short-term deposits, or a rating from Standard   Poor s
not lower than  AA , in the case of long-term unsecured debt obli-
gations;

(iii) commercial paper having, at the earlier of (x) the
time of the investment and (y) the time of the contractual commitment
to invest therein, a rating from Standard   Poor s of  A-1  

(iv) bankers  acceptances issued by any depositary
institution or trust company described in clause (ii) above;

(v) investments in money market funds rated  AAAm  by
Standard   Poor s or otherwise approved in writing by Standard  
Poor 

(vi) Eurodollar time deposits having a credit rating from
Standard   Poor s of  A-1  

-30- 

(vii) repurchase agreements involving any of the Permitted
Investments described in clauses (i) and (vi) above and the
certificates of deposit described in clause (ii) above which are
entered into with a depository institution or trust company, having a
commercial paper or short-term certificate of deposit rating of
 A-1   by Standard   Poor s and P-1 by Moody s or which otherwise is
approved as to collateralization by the Rating Agencies; and

(viii) any other instruments or securities, if the Rating
Agencies confirm in writing that the investment in such instruments
or securities will not adversely affect any ratings with respect to
any Series of Investor Notes.

Permitted Liens  means (i) Liens for current taxes not
delinquent or for taxes being contested in good faith and by appropriate
proceedings, and with respect to which adequate reserves have been
established, and are being maintained, in accordance with GAAP, (ii)
mechanics , materialmen s, landlords , warehousemen s and carrier s Liens,
and other Liens imposed by law, securing obligations arising in the ordinary
course of business that are not more than thirty days past due or are being
contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and with respect to
which adequate reserves have been established, and are being maintained, in
accordance with GAAP, (iii) on the Initial Closing Date only, the Existing
Liens, (iv) Liens in favor of the Origination Trust in the Leased Vehicles,
(v) Liens in favor of the Issuer pursuant to the Transfer Agreement, (vi)
Liens in favor of the Indenture Trustee pursuant to the Indenture, and (vii)
Liens in favor of an Enhancement Provider, provided, however, that such Liens
are subordinate to the Liens in favor of the Indenture Trustee and have been
consented to by the Indenture Trustee.

Person  means any natural person, corporation, business
trust, joint venture, association, limited liability company, partnership,
joint stock company, corporation, trust, unincorporated organization or
Government Authority.

PHH Consumer Lease  means PHH Personal Lease Corporation, a
Maryland corporation.

PHH Treasury Note Rate  means, on any day between the 16th
day of the month through the 15th day of the following month, the interest
rate that is quoted in the Federal Reserve Statistical Release (H.15 Report)
for two year treasury constant maturities on the fifteenth day of that month,
or the first business day thereafter if the fifteenth day of the month falls
on a non-business day.

Physical Property  means banker s acceptances, commercial
paper, negotiable certificates of deposits and other obligations that

-31- 

constitute  instruments  within the meaning of Section 9-105(l)(i) of the
applicable UCC and are susceptible to physical delivery and Certificated
Securities.

Policies  means the standards, policies and procedures,
including but not limited to the credit and residual accrual policies applied
by the Servicer in originating Leases and those applied by the Servicer in
its collection and repossession activities.

Pool Factor  means, except with respect to any Series of
Notes issued in more than one Class, a number carried out to seven decimals
representing the ratio of the applicable Invested Amount as of such Record
Date (determined after taking into account any reduction in the Invested
Amount which will occur on the following Payment Date) to the applicable
Initial Invested Amount, and with respect to a Series of Notes having more
than one Class, as specified in the Indenture Supplement relating to such
Series.

Potential Amortization Event  means any occurrence or event
which, with the giving of notice, the passage of time or both, would
constitute an Amortization Event.

Potential Termination Event  means any occurrence or event
which, with the giving of notice, the passage of time or both, would
constitute a Termination Event.

Preferred Member  means a Person in whose name a Preferred
Membership Interest is registered in the Register.

Preferred Membership Interests means the Preferred
Membership Interests issued pursuant to the LLC Agreement.

Principal Payment Amount  means, for any Settlement Date,
the sum of (a) the Lease Balance Declines for each Unit Lease for such
Settlement Date and (b) the aggregate Cost of all Paid-In Advance Vehicles
that became Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles during the immediately
preceding Monthly Period.

Principal Terms  is defined in Section 2.2 of the Base
Indenture.

Proceeding  means any suit in equity, action or law or
other judicial or administrative proceeding.

Qualified Institution  means a depository institution
organized under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof
or incorporated under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction with a branch or

-32- 

agency located in the United States of America or any State thereof and
subject to supervision and examination by federal or state banking
authorities which at all times has the Required Rating and, in the case of
any such institution organized under the laws of the United States of
America, whose deposits are insured by the FDIC.

Qualified Trust Institution  means an institution organized
under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or
incorporated under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction with a branch or agency
located in the United States of America or any State thereof and subject to
supervision and examination by federal or state banking authorities which at
all times (i) is authorized under such laws to act as a trustee or in any
other fiduciary capacity, (ii) has not less than one billion dollars in
assets under fiduciary management, and (iii) has a long term deposits rating
of not less than  BBB-  by Standard   Poor s and Baa3 by Moody s.

Quarterly Compliance Certificate  is defined in Section
4.1(a) of the Base Indenture.

Rating Agency  means, with respect to each Series of Notes,
the rating agency or agencies, if any, specified in the related Indenture
Supplement.

Rating Agency Condition  means, the notification in writing
by the Rating Agencies that a proposed action will not result in a reduction
or withdrawal by each such Rating Agency of the rating of any Class of any
Series of Outstanding Investor Notes rated by such Rating Agency.

Receivable Purchase Agreement  means the Receivable
Purchase Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, by and between SPV
and VMS, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance
with its terms.

Receivable Purchase Termination Event  is defined in the
Receivable Purchase Agreement.

Record Date  means, with respect to each Series of Notes,
the dates specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Recoveries  means any amounts received by the Servicer with
respect to Charged-Off Leases, including Collections received from Obligors
and liquidation proceeds of the related Leased Vehicles, net of (i) any
applicable rental receipts tax, sales and use tax, personal property tax, ad
valorem tax or any other tax or any governmental fees or charges, (ii) any
and all out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Servicer in
connection with such recovery and (iii) any amounts remitted to the related
Obligor as required by applicable law or the related Lease.

-33- 

Register  means the register mentioned in Section 11.3 of
the LLC Agreement.

Registered Notes  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Base
Indenture.

Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles  means, for any Monthly
Period, all Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles which were sold or otherwise
disposed of after rejection thereof by the related Obligor during such
Monthly Period.

Related Rights  means, with respect to any Unit, all
Origination Trust Assets to the extent such assets are associated with such
Unit.

Repurchase Amount  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Required Aggregate Asset Amount  means the sum of the
Required Asset Amounts with respect to all Series of Outstanding Investor
Notes.

Required Asset Amount  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Required Overcollateralization Amount  means, with respect
to any Series of Investor Notes, the amount specified in the related
Indenture Supplement.

Required Rating  means a short-term certificate of deposit
rating from Moody s of P-1 and from Standard   Poor s of  A-1  and a long-
term unsecured debt rating of not less than Aa3 by Moody s and  AA-  by
Standard   Poor s.

Requirements of Law  means, with respect to any Person or
any of its property, the certificate of incorporation or articles of
association and by-laws or other organizational or governing documents of
such Person or any of its property, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation,
or determination of any arbitrator or Governmental Authority, in each case
applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which
such Person or any of its property is subject, whether Federal, state or
local (including, without limitation, usury laws, the Federal Truth in
Lending Act and retail installment sales acts).

Residual Value Loss  means, for any Unit Vehicle which
became a Residual Value Vehicle during a Monthly Period, an amount equal to

-34- 

(a) the Stated Residual Value of such Unit Vehicle minus (b) all Termination
Proceeds with respect to such Unit Vehicle during such Monthly Period.

Residual Value Loss Ratio  means, for any specified
Settlement Date, the quotient, expressed as a percentage, of (a) the sum of
the Residual Value Losses for all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value
Vehicles during the preceding Monthly Period minus all Termination Proceeds
included in clauses (i) and (ii) of the definition thereof received by the
Servicer during the preceding Monthly Period for all Unit Vehicles that
became Residual Value Vehicles during prior Monthly Periods divided by (b)
the sum of the Stated Residual Values for all Unit Vehicles that became
Residual Value Vehicles during the preceding Monthly Period.

Residual Value Vehicles  means, for any Monthly Period, all
Unit Vehicles subject to Closed-End Leases (other than Unit Vehicles subject
to Charged-off Leases) which were sold or otherwise disposed of after
termination or expiration of the related Closed-End Lease during such Monthly
Period.

Responsible Officer  means, with respect to the Indenture
Trustee, any officer within the Corporate Trust Office, including any
Assistant Vice President, Vice President, any Secretary or Assistant
Secretary or any other officer of the Indenture Trustee customarily
performing functions similar to those performed by any Person who at the time
shall be an above-designated officer and having direct responsibility for
administration of the Indenture and the applicable Series Supplement and also
any particular officer to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because
of such officer s knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.

Revised Article 8  means Revised Article 8 (1994 Version)
(and corresponding amendments to Article 9) as promulgated by the National
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws.

Revolving Period  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the period specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

S P  or  Standard   Poor s  means Standard   Poor s Ratings
Service, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.

Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.

Securities Intermediary  means a  securities intermediary 
within the meaning of Section 8-102(a)(14) of Revised Article 8.

Securitization  is defined in the Origination Trust
Agreement.

-35- 

Security Entitlement  means a  security entitlement  within
the meaning of Section 8-102(a)(17) of Revised Article 8.

Series  means any Series of Investor Notes, which may
include within any such Series a Class or Classes of Investor Notes
subordinate to another such Class or Classes of Investor Notes.

Series Gain on Sale Account Percentage  means, with respect
to any Series of Investor Notes, the percentage specified in the related
Indenture Supplement.

Series Account  means any account or accounts established
pursuant to an Indenture Supplement for the benefit of a Series of Notes.

Series Administrator Fee,  with respect to any Series of
Notes, that portion of the Administrator Fee payable from Collections
allocable to such Series pursuant to the related Indenture Supplement.

Series Closing Date  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the date
of issuance of such Series of Investor Notes, as specified in the related
Indenture Supplement.

Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement  means the Series
1999-1 Servicing Supplement to the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement,
dated as of the Initial Closing Date,
between the Origination Trust and the Servicer.

Series Note Termination Date  means, with respect to any
Series of Investor Notes, the date stated in the related Indenture Supplement.

Series Servicing Fee,  with respect to any Series of Notes,
that portion of the Servicing Fee payable from Collections allocable to such
Series pursuant to the related Indenture Supplement.

Series Servicing Fee Percentage  means, with respect to any
Series of Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Series Termination Date  means, with respect to any Series
of Investor Notes, the date stated in the related Indenture Supplement as the
termination date.

Servicer  means VMS in its capacity as servicer under the
Origination Trust Servicing Agreement.

-36- 

Servicer Termination Event  is defined in the Origination
Trust Servicing Agreement.

Servicing Fee  is defined in the Origination Trust
Servicing Agreement.

Settlement Date  means the 7th day of each month, or if
such date is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, commencing
August 9, 1999.

Settlement Statement  is defined in Section 4.1 of the Base
Indenture.

Sold Units  means, collectively, the Initial Units and the
Additional Units.

Special Purpose Entity  is defined in the Origination Trust
Agreement.

SPV  means Raven Funding LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company.

Stated Residual Value  means, for any Unit Vehicle subject
to a Closed-End Lease, the stated residual value of such Unit Vehicle
established at the time of origination of such Closed-End Lease in accordance
with the Policies.

SUBI Assets  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

SUBIs  means the Fleet Receivable SUBI and the Lease SUBI.

SUBI Certificates  means the Fleet Receivable SUBI
Certificate and the Lease SUBI Certificate.

SUBI Portfolio  is defined in the Origination Trust
Agreement.

Subsidiary  means, with respect to any Person (herein
referred to as the  parent ), any corporation, partnership, association or
other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests
representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary
voting power or more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, at
the time any determination is being made, owned, controlled or held by the
parent or (b) that is, at the time any determination is being made, otherwise
controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the
parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.

-37- 

Tax Opinion  means an opinion of counsel to be delivered in
connection with the issuance of a new Series of Investor Notes to the effect
that, for United States federal income tax purposes, (i) the issuance of such
new Series of Notes will not affect adversely the United States federal
income tax characterization of any Series of Outstanding Notes or Class
thereof that was (based upon an opinion of counsel) characterized as debt at
the time of their issuance and (ii) the Issuer will not be classified as an
association or as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for
United States federal income tax purposes.

Termination Event  means any of a Receivable Purchase
Termination Event or a Transfer Termination Event.

Termination Proceeds  means for any Residual Value Vehicle
all amounts received by the Servicer upon, after or in connection with the
termination of the related Lease including, without limitation, (i) sales
proceeds with respect to such Residual Value Vehicle, net of any and all out-
of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Servicer in connection with such
sale or other disposition and any amounts remitted to the related Obligor as
required by applicable law or the related Lease, (ii) any and all insurance
proceeds received in connection with the occurrence of a casualty event in
respect of such Residual Value Vehicle and (iii) any and all amounts billed
the related Obligor in connection with the termination of such Lease,
including any Incidental Lease Termination Payments.

Three Month Average Charge-Off Ratio  means, with respect
to any Settlement Date, the average of the Charge-Off Ratios for such
Settlement Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio  means, with respect
to any Settlement Date, the average of the Delinquency Ratios for such
Settlement Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

Three Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio  means, with
respect to any Settlement Date, the average of the Paid-In Advance Loss
Ratios for such Settlement Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement
Dates.

Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio  means, with
respect to any Settlement Date, the average of the Residual Value Loss Ratios
for such Settlement Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

TIA  means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force on
the date hereof, unless otherwise specifically provided.

Transaction Documents  means, collectively, the Indenture,
the Investor Notes, any agreements relating to the issuance or the purchase

-38- 

of any of the Investor Notes, any agreements relating to any Credit
Enhancement for any Investor Notes, the LLC Agreement, the Transfer
Agreement, the Administration Agreement, the Management Agreement and the
Origination Trust Documents.

Transfer Agent and Registrar  is defined in Section 2.4 of
the Base Indenture.

Transfer Agreement  means the Transfer Agreement, dated as
of the Initial Closing Date, between SPV and the Issuer, as amended, modified
or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms.

Transfer Date  means, unless otherwise specified in the
related Indenture Supplement, with respect to any Series of Notes, the
Business Day immediately prior to each Payment Date.

Transferred Asset Payment  is defined in Section 2.3 of the
Transfer Agreement.

Transferred Assets  is defined in the Transfer Agreement.

Transfer Termination Event  is defined in the Transfer
Agreement.

Twelve Month Average Charge-Off Ratio  means, with respect
to any Settlement Date, the average of the Charge-Off Ratios for such
Settlement Date and the eleven immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

Twelve Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio  means,
with respect to any Settlement Date, the average of the Paid-In Advance Loss
Ratios for such Settlement Date and the eleven immediately preceding
Settlement Dates.

Twelve Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio  means, with
respect to any Settlement Date, the average of the Residual Value Loss Ratios
for such Settlement Date and the eleven immediately preceding Settlement
Dates.

UCC  means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from
time to time in the applicable jurisdiction.

Uncertificated Security  means an  uncertificated security 
within the meaning of the applicable UCC.

Unit  means a Vehicle, the related Lease and the Related
Rights associated therewith or a Paid-In Advance Vehicle and the Related
Rights associated therewith.

-39- 

Unit Leases  means the Leases allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio.

Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles  means the Paid-In Advance
Vehicles allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio.

Unit Repurchase Payments  means, for any Settlement Date,
the aggregate amount payable by the Servicer pursuant to Section 7.15 of the
Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement on such Settlement Date.

Unit Vehicle  means the Leased Vehicles and Paid-In Advance
Vehicles allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio.

United States Security Entitlement  means a  Security
Entitlement  as defined in 31 C.F.R. Section 357.2, 24 C.F.R. Section 1.2, 12
C.F.R. Section 912.1, 12 C.F.R. Section 1511.1, 12 C.F.R. Section 615.5450 or
31 C.F.R. Section 354.1.

United States  or  U.S.  means the United States of
America, its fifty States and the District of Columbia.

U.S. Government Obligations  means direct obligations of
the United States of America, or any agency or instrumentality thereof for
the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of
America is pledged as to full and timely payment of such obligations.

UTI  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

UTI Assets  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

Vehicle  means an automobile, a truck, a truck chassis, a
truck body, a truck tractor, a truck trailer or another type of motorized
vehicle or equipment, together with any and all accessories, additions and
parts from time to time in or to any of the foregoing and all accessions
thereto

VMS  means PHH Vehicle Management Services LLC or any
predecessor in interest thereto (including, without limitation, PHH Fleet
America Corporation and Peterson, Howell   Heather, Inc.).

Weighted Average Cost of Funds  means, for any Settlement
Date, the quotient of the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of interest payable
on all Series of Outstanding Investor Notes on such Settlement Date and (ii)
the aggregate amount of dividends payable on all series of Preferred
Membership Interests on such Settlement Date divided by the sum of (i) the
weighted average aggregate Invested Amount of all Series of Outstanding
Investor Notes during the immediately preceding Accrual Period and (ii) the

-40- 

aggregate stated liquidation preference of all series of Preferred Membership
Interests as of such Settlement Date (before giving effect to any redemptions
on such Settlement Date).

Weighted Average Servicing Fee Percentage  means, for any
Settlement Date, the sum of (i) .01% and the quotient of the sum of the
product of the Required Asset Amount with respect to each Series of
Outstanding Notes and the Series Servicing Fee Percentage with respect to
such Series of Outstanding Notes as of the last day of the immediately
preceding Monthly Period divided by the Required Aggregate Asset Amount as of
such last day.

Weighted Average Yield Shortfall  means, for any Settlement
Date, the excess, if any, of (a) the Minimum Yield Rate for such Settlement
Date over (b) the Weighted Average Yield Shortfall Lease Yield for such
Settlement Date.

Weighted Average Yield Shortfall Life  means, for any
Settlement Date, 50% of the weighted (on the basis of Net Book Value of the
related Leased Vehicle) average Assumed Lease Term of the Yield Shortfall
Leases, assuming that all scheduled lease payments are made thereon when
scheduled and that the Obligors thereunder do not elect to convert such Yield
Shortfall Leases to Fixed Rate Leases, as of the last day of the immediately
preceding Monthly Period.

Weighted Average Yield Shortfall Lease Yield  means, for
any Settlement Date, the quotient of the sum of the product with respect to
each Yield Shortfall Lease of (a) the actual or implicit finance charge rate
applicable to such Yield Shortfall Lease and (b) the Net Book Value of the
Leased Vehicle subject to such Yield Shortfall Lease as of the last day of
the immediately preceding Monthly Period divided by the aggregate Net Book
Value of the Leased Vehicles subject to all of the Yield Shortfall Leases as
of the last day of the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

written  or  in writing  means any form of written
communication, including, without limitation, by means of telex, telecopier
device, telegraph or cable.

Yield Shortfall Amount  means, for any Settlement Date, (i)
if the Hypothetical Yield Shortfall Amount for such Settlement Date is less
than 70% of the 1999-1B Invested Amount as of such Settlement Date (after
giving effect to any increase thereof on such Settlement Date), an amount
equal to the Hypothetical Yield Shortfall Amount and (ii) otherwise, an
amount equal to the product of (x) the Weighted Average Yield Shortfall for
such Settlement Date, (y) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Yield Shortfall
Leases as of the last day of the immediately preceding Monthly Period and (z)
the Weighted Average Yield Shortfall Life for such Settlement Date.

-41- 

Yield Shortfall Lease  means, as of any Settlement Date,
each Unit Lease that is a Floating Rate Lease with an actual or implicit
finance charge rate of less than the Minimum Yield Rate as of the last day of
the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Yield Supplement Amount  means, as of any Settlement Date,
the excess, if any, of the Yield Shortfall Amount over 70% of the 1999-1B
Invested Amount as of such Settlement Date (after giving effect to any
increase thereof on such Settlement Date); provided, however that upon the
occurrence of a Receivable Purchase Termination Event, the Yield Supplement
Amount will equal the Yield Shortfall Amount.

-42- 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 6
 y26027exv10w2.htm
 EX-10.2: SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO.1

EX-10.2 

EXHIBIT 10.2 

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, 
as Issuer

and

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as Indenture Trustee

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE No. 1

Dated as of October 28, 1999

to

BASE INDENTURE

Dated as of June 30, 1999

Asset Backed Notes 
(Issuable in Series)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

i 

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE No. 1, dated as of October 28, 1999
( Supplemental Indenture ), to BASE INDENTURE, dated as of June 30, 1999,
between GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, a special purpose, limited liability company
established under the laws of Delaware (the  Issuer ), and THE CHASE
MANHATTAN BANK, a New York banking corporation ( Chase ), as trustee (in such
capacity, the  Indentue Trustee ).

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer and Chase are parties to a Base Indenture,
dated as of June 30, 1999 (the  Base Indenture 

WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to amend certain terms of the Base
Indenture;

WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to amend and supplement certain terms
defined in the Definitions List attached as Schedule 1 to the Indenture;

WHEREAS, the Isser has duly authorized the execution and delivery
of this Supplemental Indenture; and

WHEREAS, Chase, as Indenture Trustee, is willing to enter into this
Supplemental Indenture;

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises, and other
good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are
acknowledged, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, that the Base Indenture
be amended and supplemented as follows:

SECTION 1: CERTAIN DEFINED TERMS; AMENDMENT OF SCHEDULE 1

SECTION 1.1 Certain Defined Terms

Certain capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings
assigned to such terms in the amended Definitions List attached hereto as
Schedule 1 (the  Definitions List ), as such Definitions List may be
hereafter further amended or modified from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of the Base Indenture.

SECTION 1.2 Amendment of Schedule 1

From and after the date of this Supplemental Indenture, which shall

not be a date prior to the satisfaction of each of the conditions to
effectiveness of this Supplemental Indenture set forth in Section 3 hereof,
any reference in the Indenture or any other Transaction Document to the
 Definitions List  or  Schedule 1 to the Indenture  shall mean Schedule 1 to
this Supplemental Indenture, and any reference to a capitalized term shall

have the meanings assigned to such term therein, unless the context otherwise
requires.

SECTION 2: AMENDMENTS OF BASE INDENTURE

Section 2.1 Amendment to Section 1.4.

Section 1.4 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by deleting the
word  and  from the end of Clause (v) thereof, deleting the period at the
end of Clause (v) thereof and substituting in lieu thereof   and  and adding
the following new Clause (vii):

(vii) any references herein to Notes or Noteholders means
Investor Notes or Investor Noteholders. 

Section 2.2 Amendment to Section 2.4.

The third sentence of Section 2.4(a) of the Base Indenture is
hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

If any form of Investor Note is issued as a Global Note, the Indenture
Trustee may, or if and so long as any Series of Investor Notes is listed
on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and the rules of such exchange shall so
require, the Indenture Trustee shall appoint a co-transfer agent and
co-registrar in Luxembourg or another European city. 

Section 2.3 Amendment to Section 2.6.

The sixth sentence of Section 2.6(a) of the Base Indenture is
hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

If any form of Investor Note is issued as a Global Note, or if and so
long as any Series of Investor Notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock
Exchange and the rules of such exchange shall so require, the Indenture
Trustee shall appoint a co-paying agent in Luxembourg or another
European city. 

Section 2.4 Amendment to Section 3.2.

-2- 

Section 3.2 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended and restated in
its entirety as follows:

Section 3.2 Transaction Documents.

(a) Promptly following a request from the Indenture Trustee
to do so and at the Administrator s expense, the Issuer agrees to take
all such lawful action as the Indenture Trustee may request to compel or
secure the performance and observance by SPV, the Servicer, the
Administrator, VMS or PHH Consumer Lease or any other party to any of
the Transaction Documents, as applicable, of each of their respective
obligations under the Transaction Documents, in each case in accordance
with the applicable terms thereof, and to exercise any and all rights,
remedies, powers and privileges lawfully available to the Issuer to the
extent and in the manner directed by the Indenture Trustee, including
the transmission of notices of default thereunder and the institution of
legal or administrative actions or proceedings to compel or secure
performance by SPV, the Servicer, the Administrator, VMS or PHH Consumer
Lease or any other party to any of the Transaction Documents, as
applicable, of each of their respective obligations under the
Transaction Documents. If (i) the Issuer shall have failed, within 30
days of receiving the direction of the Indenture Trustee, to take
commercially reasonable action to accomplish such directions of the
Indenture, (ii) the Issuer refuses to take any such action, or (iii) the
Indenture Trustee reasonably determines that such action must be taken
immediately, the Indenture Trustee may take such previously directed
action and any related action permitted under this Indenture which the
Indenture Trustee thereafter determines is appropriate (without the need
under this provision or any other provision under the Indenture to
direct the Issuer to take such action), on behalf of the Issuer and the
Investor Noteholders.

(b) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing
with respect to any Series of Outstanding Investor Notes, the Indenture
Trustee may, and, at the direction (which direction shall be in writing)
of the Holders of a Majority in Interest of such Series of Outstanding
Investor Notes (or, if an Event of Default with respect to more than one
Series of Investor Notes has occurred, a Majority in Interest of each
Series of Investor Notes with respect to which an Event of Default shall
have occurred) shall exercise all rights, remedies, powers, privileges
and claims of the Issuer against SPV, the Origination Trust or the
Servicer under or in connection with the Transfer Agreement and the
Origination Trust Documents, including the right or power to take any
action to compel or secure performance or observance by SPV, the
Origination Trust or the Servicer of each of their respective
obligations to the Issuer thereunder and to give any consent, request,
notice, direction, approval, extension or waiver under the Transfer
Agreement and the Origination Trust Documents, and any right of the
Issuer to take such action shall be suspended; provided that, if an
Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to less

-3- 

than all Series of Outstanding Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee may
not take any action hereunder that is detrimental to the rights of the
Holders of the Investor Notes with respect to which no Event of Default
shall have occurred.

(c) Without derogating from the absolute nature of the
assignment granted to the Indenture Trustee under this Indenture or the
rights of the Indenture Trustee hereunder, the Issuer agrees that it
will not, without the consent of the Holders of a Majority in Interest
of each Series of Outstanding Investor Notes, (i) amend, modify, waive,
supplement, terminate or surrender, or agree to any amendment,
modification, supplement, termination, waiver or surrender of, the terms
of any of the Issuer Assets, including any of the Transaction Documents
or (ii) waive timely observance by SPV under the Transfer Agreement or
the Origination Trust, VMS or the Servicer under the Origination Trust
Documents. Upon the occurrence of a Servicer Termination Event, the
Issuer will not, without the prior written consent of the Indenture
Trustee or the Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of
Outstanding Notes, terminate the Servicer and appoint a successor
Servicer in accordance with the Servicing Agreement and will terminate
the Servicer and appoint a successor Servicer in accordance with the
Servicing Agreement if so directed by the Indenture Trustee or the
Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series of Outstanding Notes. 

Section 2.5 Amendment to Section 3.3.

Section 3.3 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by (a) deleting
the reference to  this Section 3.2  in paragraph (a) and inserting in lieu
thereof a reference to  this Section 3.3  and (a) deleting the reference to
 this Section 3.2(b)  in paragraph (b) and inserting in lieu thereof a
reference to  this Section 3.3(b). 

Section 2.6 Amendment to Section 3.4.

Section 3.4 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by deleting the
reference to  Section 3.2(a)  and inserting in lieu thereof a reference to
 Section 3.3(a). 

Section 2.7 Amendment to Section 6.1.

Clause (a) of Section 6.1 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended
by adding the following sentence to the end of said Clause:

The final payment of any Definitive Note, however, will be made only
upon presentation and surrender of such Definitive Note at the offices
or agencies specified in the notice of final distribution with respect

-4- 

to such Definitive Note on a Payment Date which is a business day in the
place of presentation. 

Section 2.8 Amendment to Section 7.13.

Section 7.13 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by (a)
deleting Clause (a) thereof in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the
following new Clause (a):

(a) Each of the SUBI Certificates has been duly registered in the
name of the Issuer, endorsed in blank, and delivered to the Indenture
Trustee and all other action necessary (including the filing of UCC-1
financing statements) to protect and perfect the Indenture Trustee s
security interest in the Collateral now in existence and hereafter
acquired or created has been duly and effectively taken. 

Section 2.9 Amendment to Section 8.7.

Section 8.7 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by deleting
clause (d) in its entirety and changing paragraph  (e)  to paragraph  (d) .

Section 2.10 Amendment to Section 8.2.

Section 8.2 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by adding the
following sentence after the second sentence in such Section as follows:

In addition, Definitive Notes will be transferable or exchangeable at
the offices of any co-transfer agent and co-registrar in Luxembourg
appointed in accordance with the terms hereof. 

Section 2.11 Amendment to Section 8.18.

Section 8.18 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by adding the
following sentence to the end of said Section:

The Issuer shall not issue any series of Preferred Membership Interests
unless, prior to such issuance, each Rating Agency confirms that after
such issuance the Rating Agency Condition will be met. 

Section 2.12 Amendment to Section 9.1.

Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by deleting
Clause (b) thereof and inserting in lieu thereof the following new  
Clause (b):

(b) default in the payment of the principal of any Investor Note
of any Series when the same becomes due and payable; 

-5- 

Section 2.13 Amendment to Article 9.

Article 9 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by deleting
Section 9.6 in its entirety and changing Section 9.7 through Section 9.14 to
Section 9.6 through Section 9.13, respectively.

Section 2.14 Amendment to Section 10.1.

Section 10.1(c) of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by deleting
the reference to  Section 9.12  and inserting in lieu thereof a reference to
 Section 9.11. 

Section 2.15 Amendments to Section 12.2.

Section 12.2 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended by (a) deleting the
proviso to the first sentence of said Section and inserting in lieu thereof
the following new proviso:

provided that, (a) if such amendment, modification or waiver of or to
this Indenture, the Indenture Supplement with respect to a Series of
Investor Notes or any Transaction Document does not affect the
Noteholders of a particular Series of Investor Notes (as substantiated
by an Opinion of Counsel to such effect), then the consent of the
Investor Noteholders of such Series shall not be required to such
amendment, modification or waiver, (b) if such amendment, modification
or waiver of or to any Transaction Document does not adversely affect in
any material respect the Noteholders of any Series of Investor Notes (as
substantiated by an Opinion of Counsel to such effect), then no consent
of Investor Noteholders shall be required to such amendment,
modification or waiver and (c) if such amendment or modification of the
LLC Agreement relates to the issuance of any series of Junior Preferred
Membership Interests, then no consent of Investor Noteholders shall be
required to such amendment or modification so long as the Rating Agency
Condition is satisfied with respect to such amendment or modification;
provided further that the Rating Agency Condition is satisfied with
respect to any such amendment, modification or waiver  and

(b) deleting the reference to  this Section 11.2  in clause (i) of the
second sentence thereof and inserting in lieu thereof a reference to  this
Section 12.2. 

SECTION 3: REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

In order to induce the Indenture Trustee to agree to this
Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer hereby represents and warrants, as

-6- 

follows, for the benefit of the Indenture Trustee and the Investor
Noteholders, as of the date hereof.

Section 3.1 Affirmation of Representations and Warranties.

Each representation and warranty of the Issuer set forth in the
Base Indenture and in each other Transaction Document to which it is a party,
is true and correct as of the date of this Supplemental Indenture as though
such representation or warranty were being made on and as of the date hereof
and is hereby deemed repeated as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.2 LLC Agreement and Governmental Authorization.

The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this
Supplemental Indenture (a) is within the Issuer s power, has been duly
authorized by all necessary action, (b) requires no action by or in respect
of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official which has not
been obtained and (c) does not contravene, or constitute a default under, any
Requirement of Law or any provision of applicable law, its certificate of
formation or the LLC Agreement or of any law or governmental regulation,
rule, contract, agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other
instrument bindng upon the Issuer or any of the Issuer Assets or result in
the creation or imposition of any Lien on any Issuer Asset except for Liens
created by the Indenture or the other Transaction Documents. This
Supplemental Indenture has been executed and delivered by a duly authorized
officer of the Issuer.

Section 3.3 Binding Effect.

This Supplemental Indenture is a legal, valid and binding
obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with
its terms (except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy,
insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other
similar laws affecting creditors  rights generally or by general equitable
principles, whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity and by an
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing).

Section 3.4 No Consent.

No consent, action by or in respect of, approval or other
authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any
Governmental Authority or other Person is required for the valid execution
and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture or for the performance of any of
the Issuer s obligations hereunder other than such consents, approvals,
authorizations, registrations, declarations or filings as were obtained by
the Issuer prior to the date hereof.

-7- 

SECTION 4: CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

This Supplemental Indenture shall become effective and shall be
binding on each of the parties hereto upon the satisfaction or due waiver of
each of the following conditions precedent:

1. 
       
     The consent of the Holders of a Majority in Interest of each Series
of Outstanding Investor Notes shall have been given in respect of
this Supplemental Indenture and a copy thereof provided to the
Indenture Trustee. 

2. 
       
     The Series 1999-1 Investor Notes shall have been repaid in full and
the Series 1999-1 Preferred Membership Interests shall have been
redeemed in full. 

3. 
       
     The Indenture Trustee shall have received evidence satisfactory to
it that each Manager of the Issuer has approved this Supplemental
Indenture. 

4. 
       
     The Indenture Trustee shall have received an Officer s Certificate
of the Issuer dated as of the date hereof to the effect that (i) no
Amortization Event, Potential Amortization Event, Event of Default
or Potential Event of Default is continuing or will occur as a
result of the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture
and (ii) the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture
will not result in any breach of any of the terms, conditions or
provisions of or constitute a default under any indenture,
mortgage, deed of trust or other agreement or instrument,
including, without limitation, any Transaction Document, to which
the Issuer is a party or by which it or its property is bound or
any order of any court or administrative agency entered in any
suit, action or other judicial or administrative proceeding to
which the Issuer is party or by which it or its property may be
bound or to which it or its property may be subject. 

5. 
       
     The Indenture Trustee shall have received an Opinion of Counsel,
subject to the assumptions and qualifications stated therein, and
in a form substantially acceptable to the Indenture Trustee, dated
the date hereof, substantially to the effect that: 

i. 
       
     all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture
with respect to the execution and delivery of this
Supplemental Indenture have been complied with in all material
respects; 

ii. 
       
     the Issuer is duly organized under the jurisdiction of its
formation and has the power and authority to execute and 

-8- 

deliver this Supplemental Indenture, and SPV is duly organized
under the jurisdiction of its formation and has the power and
authority to execute and deliver the Amendment to the Transfer
Agreement (as defined in Clause 6 below); 

iii. 
       
     this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized, executed
and delivered by the Issuer; and the Amendment to the Transfer
Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by
the Issuer and SPV; 

iv. 
       
     the Supplemental Indenture is a legal, valid and binding
obligation of the Issuer enforceable in accordance with its
terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors  rights
generally and to general principles of equity; 

v. 
       
     the Amendment to the Transfer Agreement is a legal, valid and
binding obligation of the Issuer and SPV, enforceable in
accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting
creditors  rights generally and to general principles of
equity; and 

vi. 
       
     such other matters as the Indenture Trustee may reasonably
require; 

6. 
       
     The Indenture Trustee shall have received duly executed
counterparts of the Amendment to the Transfer Agreement, dated as
of October 28, 1999, between the Issuer and SPV (the  Amendment to
the Transfer Agreement ), duly executed by the Issuer and SPV; and 

7. 
       
     The Indenture Trustee shall have received such other documents,
instruments, certifications, agreements or other items as the
Indenture Trustee may reasonably require. 

SECTION 5: MISCELLANEOUS

Section 5.1 Duplicate Originals.

The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental
Indenture. One signed copy is enough to prove this Supplemental Indenture.

Section 5.2 Indenture Trustee Consent.

By its execution hereof, the Indenture Trustee consents to the
execution and delivery by the Issuer of the Amendment to the Transfer
Agreement.

-9- 

Section 5.3 Ratification and Effect.

The Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this
Supplemental Indenture No. 1, is in all respects ratified and confirmed,
shall continue to be in full force and effect, and shall be read, taken and
construed as one and the same instrument.

Section 5.4 Severability of Provisions.

If any one or more of the covenants, agreements, provisions or
terms of this Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason whatsoever be held
invalid, then such covenants, agreements, provisions or terms shall be deemed
severable from the remaining covenants, agreements, provisions or terms of
this Supplemental Indenture and shall in no way affect the validity of
enforceability of the other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture.

Section 5.5 Counterparts.

This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in two or more
counterparts (and by different parties on separate counterparts), each of
which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one
and the same instrument.

Section 5.6 Table of Contents, Headings, etc..

The table of contents and headings of the Sections of this
Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only,
are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or
restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.

Section 5.7 Choice of Law.

THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND
INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

-10- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Indenture Trustee and the Issuer have
caused this Supplemental Indenture No. 1 to be duly executed by their
respective duly authorized officers as of the day and year first written
above.

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, 

as Issuer 

By:

/s/ Tony Wong 

Name:

Tony Wong 

Title:

Manager 

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 

as Indenture Trustee 

By:

/s/ Jennifer Cupo 

Name:

Jennifer Cupo 

Title:

Vice President 

AMENDED AND RESTATED 
SCHEDULE 1 
TO THE 
BASE INDENTURE

DEFINITIONS LIST

Accrual Period  means the period from and including a Settlement
Date (or, in the case of the initial Accrual Period, October 28, 1999) to but
excluding the succeeding Settlement Date.

Additional Assignment  is defined in Section 2.2 of the Transfer
Agreement.

Additional Closing Date  is defined in Section 2.3 of the Transfer
Agreement.

Additional Equipment Assets  means the Master Lease Agreements,
the Leases arising thereunder and the Leased Vehicles subject to such Leases
and the Related Rights associated therewith transferred to the Origination
Trust pursuant to the Additional Equipment Assets Contribution Agreement and
allocated to the Lease SUBI.

Additional Equipment Assets Contribution Agreement  means that
certain Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of October 28, 1999,
between SPV and the Origination Trust.

Additional Units  means any Unit allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio after the Initial Closing Date.

Additional Equipment Assets Assignment and Assumption Agreement 
means that certain Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of October
28, 1999, between VMS and SPV.

Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance  means, as of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the excess of (i) the
Aggregate Lease Balance over (ii) the Aggregate Lease Adjustment Amount as of
such date, (b) 90% of the excess of (i) the Aggregate Residual Value Amount
over (ii) the Excess Residual Value Amount as of such date and (c) 90% of the
excess of (i) the Aggregate Paid-In Advance Balance over (ii) the Excess
Paid-In Advance Amount as of such date.

Administration Agreement  means the Administration Agreement,
dated as of the Initial Closing Date, by and among the Administrator, the
Issuer, SPV and the Indenture Trustee, as amended, modified or supplemented
from time to time in accordance with its terms.

Administrator  means VMS or a successor Administrator under the
Administration Agreement.

Administrator Fee  is defined in the Administration Agreement.

Affiliate  means, with respect to any specified Person, another
Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the Person
specified. For purposes of this definition,  control  means the power to
direct the management and policies of a Person, directly or indirectly,
whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and
 controlled  and  controlling  have meanings correlative to the foregoing.

Aggregate Invested Amount  means the sum of the Invested Amounts
with respect to all Series of Outstanding Investor Notes.

Aggregate Invested Percentage  means, with respect to Collections
for any Monthly Period, the sum of the Invested Percentages for all Series of
Outstanding Notes for such Monthly Period.

Aggregate Lease Adjustment Amount  means, as of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the Overconcentration Amount
as of such date, (b) the Excess Longer-Term Lease Amount as of such date, (c)
the Excess State Obligor Risk Amount as of such date, (d) the Excess Consumer
Lease Amount as of such date and (e) the Excess High Lease Balance Amount as
of such date.

Aggregate Lease Balance  means, as of any date of determination
during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the sum of the Lease Balances of
each Eligible Lease allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day
of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual
Period.

Aggregate Net Lease Losses  means, for any Monthly Period, an
amount equal to the excess of the aggregate Lease Balances of all Unit Leases
that became Charged-Off Leases during such Monthly Period over the aggregate
amount of Recoveries received during such Monthly Period.

Aggregate Paid-In Advance Balance  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the Cost of each
Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of
the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of
such Accrual Period (or, if any such Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle was
allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio after the last day of such Monthly
Period, the Cost thereof as of the date such Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle
was allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio).

-2- 

Aggregate Residual Value Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the aggregate for
each Unit Vehicle subject to a Closed-End Lease allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the
first day of such Accrual Period of the lesser of (a) the Stated Residual
Value of such Unit Vehicle and (b) the Net Book Value of such Unit Vehicle as
of such day.

Aggregate Unit Balance  means, as of any date of determination, an
amount equal to the sum of (a) the Aggregate Lease Balance, (b) the Aggregate
Paid-In Advance Balance and (c) the Aggregate Residual Value Amount as of
such date.

ALG Residual Value  means, with respect to a Leased Vehicle
subject to a Closed-End Lease, an amount equal to the residual percentage of
the manufacturer s suggested retail price of such Leased Vehicle specified in
the ALG Residual Percentage Guide published by Automotive Lease Guide for the
make and model of such Leased Vehicle and the lease term of such Closed-End
Lease.

Amortization Commencement Date  means, with respect to a Series of
Investor Notes, the date on which an Amortization Event with respect to such
Series is deemed to have occurred pursuant to the related Indenture
Supplement.

Amortization Event  with respect to each Series of Investor Notes,
is defined in the related Indenture Supplement.

Amortization Period  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes or any Class within a Series of Investor Notes, the period following
the Revolving Period during which principal is distributed to Investor
Noteholders, which shall be the controlled amortization period, the principal
amortization period, the rapid amortization period, or other amortization
period, in each case as defined with respect to such Series in the related
Indenture Supplement.

Annual Investor Noteholders  Tax Statement  is defined in Section
4.4(c) of the Base Indenture.

Annual Servicing Report  is defined in Section 4.1(a) of the Base
Indenture.

Applicable Gain on Sale Account Percentage  means, on any date of
determination, the highest Series Gain on Sale Account Percentage with
respect to any Series of Investor Notes Outstanding.

-3- 

Applicable Law  means all applicable laws, statutes, treaties,
rules, codes, ordinances, regulations, certificates, orders, interpretations,
licenses and permits of any Governmental Authority from time to time in
effect, and judgments, decrees, injunctions, writs, orders or like action of
any court, arbitrator or other administrative, judicial or quasi-judicial
tribunal or agency of competent jurisdiction (including laws specifically
mandating compliance by property owners).

Applicants  is defined in Section 2.8 of the Base Indenture.

ARAC  means Avis Rent A Car, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

ARAC Guaranty  means the Guaranty, dated as of October 28, 1999,
from ARAC pursuant to which ARAC has guaranteed certain of VMS s obligations
under the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, as the same may be amended,
supplemented or modified from time to time.

Asset Deficiency  means, as of any date of determination, the
amount, if any, by which the Required Aggregate Asset Amount as of such date
exceeds the Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance as of such date.

Asset Purchase Agreement  means the Asset Sale Agreement, dated as
of the Initial Closing Date, among VMS, PHH Consumer Lease and SPV, as
amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its
terms.

Authorized Officer  means (a) as to the Administrator or the
Servicer, any of the President, any Executive Vice President or any Vice
President of the Administrator or the Servicer, as the case may be, (b) as to
the Issuer, any officer (or agent acting pursuant to a power of attorney) of
the Issuer or of any Manager acting on behalf of the Issuer and who is
identified on the list of Authorized Officers delivered by the Manager to the
Indenture Trustee on the Initial Closing Date (as such list may be modified
or supplemented from time to time thereafter) and (c) as to SPV, any officer
(or agent acting pursuant to a power of attorney) of SPV or of any manager of
SPV acting on behalf of SPV and who is identified on the list of Authorized
Officers delivered by SPV to the Indenture Trustee on the Initial Closing
Date (as such list may be modified or supplemented from time to time
thereafter).

Bankruptcy Code  means The Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as
amended from time to time, and as codified as 11 U.S.C. Section 101 et seq.

Base Indenture  means the Base Indenture, dated as of the Initial
Closing Date, between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee, as amended,
modified or supplemented from time to time, exclusive of Indenture
Supplements creating new Series of Investor Notes.

-4- 

Bearer Notes  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture.

Bearer Rules  means the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code,
in effect from time to time, governing the treatment of bearer obligations,
including sections 163(f), 871, 881, 1441, 1442 and 4701, and any regulations
thereunder including, to the extent applicable to any Series of Notes,
Proposed or Temporary Regulations.

Beneficial Owner  means, with respect to a Book-Entry Note, the
Person who is the beneficial owner of such Book-Entry Note, as may be
reflected on the books of the Clearing Agency, or on the books of a Person
maintaining an account with such Clearing Agency (directly or as an indirect
participant, in accordance with the rules of such Clearing Agency).

Book-Entry Notes  means beneficial interests in the Investor
Notes, ownership and transfers of which shall be evidenced or made through
book entries by a Clearing Agency as described in Section 2.10 of the Base
Indenture; provided that after the occurrence of a condition whereupon
book-entry registration and transfer are no longer permitted and Definitive
Notes are issued to the Beneficial Owners, such Definitive Notes shall
replace Book-Entry Notes.

Business Day  means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other
day on which banks are authorized or required by law to be closed in New
York, Maryland or Delaware.

Capitalized Cost  means, with respect to any Leased Vehicle, the
amount identified by the Servicer as the  Capitalized Cost  of such Leased
Vehicle, including, to the extent provided therein, delivery charges, taxes
and any registration or titling fees.

Cedel  means Cedel Bank, societe anonyme.

Certificated Security  means a  certificated security  within the
meaning of the applicable UCC.

Certificate of Title  means, with respect to any Leased Vehicle,
the certificate of title or other evidence of ownership of such Leased
Vehicle duly issued by the government department or agency in the
jurisdiction in which such Leased Vehicle is registered in accordance with
the certificate of title act or statute of the jurisdiction applicable to
such Leased Vehicle or, to the extent that a certificate of title or other
evidence of ownership has not been issued, the application (or copy thereof)
for the foregoing.

Charged-Off Lease  means a Lease or Consumer Lease that was or
should have been charged off by the Servicer as uncollectible in accordance

-5- 

with the Policies or as to which a scheduled lease payment thereon is 270 or
more days past due.

Charged-Off Receivable  means a Fleet Receivable that was or
should have been charged off by the Servicer as uncollectible in accordance
with the Policies or which is 270 or more days past due.

Charge-Off Ratio  means, for any specified Settlement Date, twelve
times the quotient, expressed as a percentage, of (a) Aggregate Net Lease
Losses for the preceding Monthly Period, divided by (b) the Aggregate Lease
Balance as of the last day of the second preceding Monthly Period.

Chase  means The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking
corporation.

Class  means, with respect to any Series of Notes, any one of the
classes of Notes of that Series as specified in the related Indenture
Supplement.

Class X 1999-1B Invested Amount  is defined in the Fleet
Receivable SUBI Supplement.

Clearing Agency  means an organization registered as a  clearing
agency  pursuant to Section 17A of the Exchange Act.

Clearing Agency Participant  means a broker, dealer, bank, other
financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time a Clearing
Agency or a Foreign Clearing Agency effects book-entry transfers and pledges
of securities deposited with the Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing
Agency.

Closed-End Lease  means a lease obligation in respect of a single
vehicle which may arise pursuant to a master lease agreement providing for
the lease of a fleet of vehicles or pursuant to a lease agreement providing
for the lease of a single vehicle that, in each case, allows the lessee
thereunder to return the vehicle subject thereto to the lessor at or prior to
lease termination and obligates the lessee thereunder to pay to the lessor at
lease termination only Incidental Lease Termination Charges.

Closing Date  means the Initial Closing Date or any Series Closing
Date.

Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
reformed or otherwise modified from time to time, and any successor statute
of similar import, in each case as in effect from time to time. References to
sections of the Code also refer to any successor sections.

-6- 

Collateral  is defined in Section 3.1 of the Base Indenture.

Collection Account  is defined in Section 5.1 of the Base
Indenture.

Collections  means (a) all payments on the Collateral, including,
without limitation, (i) all monthly lease payments and other lease payments
on the Unit Leases, (ii) all proceeds from the sale or other disposition of
Unit Vehicles, including Recoveries, (iii) all insurance proceeds and
warranty payments with respect to Unit Vehicles, (iv) all termination
payments and Incidental Lease Termination Payments received in respect of the
Unit Leases, (v) all other payments in respect of the Unit Leases, (vi) all
payments in respect of the Fleet Receivables and payments by VMS under the
Receivable Purchase Agreement, (vii) all payments by VMS or PHH Consumer
Lease under the Asset Purchase Agreement, (viii) all payments by SPV under
the Transfer Agreement and (ix) all payments in respect of any Hedging
Instruments in the Collateral, whether such payments are in the form of cash,
checks, wire transfers or other forms of payment and (b) all amounts earned
on Permitted Investments of funds in the Collection Account and, to the
extent so specified in an Indenture Supplement, in a Series Account.

Common Member  means SPV, as the holder of the Common Membership
Interest.

Common Membership Interest  means the Common Membership Interest
issued pursuant to the LLC Agreement.

Consumer Lease  means an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease
originated by PHH Consumer Lease, individually or on behalf of the
Origination Trust, that is in all material respects in a form attached to the
Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement.

Contingent Obligation  as applied to any Person, means any direct
or indirect liability, contingent or otherwise, of that Person (a) with
respect to any indebtedness, lease, dividend, letter of credit or other obli-
gation of another if the primary purpose or intent thereof by the Person
incurring the Contingent Obligation is to provide assurance to the obligee of
such obligation of another that such obligation of another will be paid or
discharged, or that any agreements relating thereto will be complied with, or
that the holders of such obligation will be protected (in whole or in part)
against loss in respect thereof or (b) under any letter of credit issued for
the account of that Person or for which that Person is otherwise liable for
reimbursement thereof. Contingent Obligation shall include (a) the direct or
indirect guarantee, endorsement (otherwise than for collection or deposit in
the ordinary course of business), co-making, discounting with recourse or
sale with recourse by such Person of the obligation of another and (b) any
liability of such Person for the obligations of another through any agreement

-7- 

(contingent or otherwise) (i) to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire
such obligation or any security therefor, or to provide funds for the payment
or discharge of such obligation (whether in the form of loans, advances,
stock purchases, capital contributions or otherwise), (ii) to maintain the
solvency of any balance sheet item, level of income or financial condition of
another or (iii) to make take-or-pay or similar payments if required
regardless of non-performance by any other party or parties to an agreement,
if in the case of any agreement described under subclause (i) or (ii) of this
sentence the primary purpose or intent thereof is as described in the
preceding sentence. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be equal to
the amount of the obligation so guaranteed or otherwise supported.

Contractual Obligation  means, with respect to any Person, any
provision of any security issued by that Person or of any indenture,
mortgage, deed of trust, contract, undertaking, agreement or other instrument
to which that Person is a party or by which it or any of its properties is
bound or to which it or any of its properties is subject.

Control  means (a) with respect to a Security Entitlement, the
Indenture Trustee (i) is identified in the records of the Securities
Intermediary for such Security Entitlement as the person having such Security
Entitlement against such Security Intermediary or (ii) has obtained the
agreement, in writing, of the Securities Intermediary for such Security
Entitlement that it will comply with orders of the Indenture Trustee
regarding the transfer or redemption of such Security Entitlement without
further consent of any other person; or (b) with respect to a United States
Security Entitlement, (i) the Indenture Trustee is a participant in the book
entry system maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank that is acting as a
fiscal agent for the issuer of such United States Security Entitlement and
such Federal Reserve Bank has indicated by book entry that such United States
Securities Entitlement has been credited to the Indenture Trustee s
securities account in such book entry system or (ii) (A) the Indenture
Trustee (x) is identified in the records of the Securities Intermediary for
such United States Security Entitlement as the person having such Security
Entitlement against such Securities Intermediary or (y) has obtained the
agreement, in writing, of the Securities Intermediary for such Security
Entitlement that it will comply with orders of the Indenture Trustee
regarding the transfer or redemption of such Security Entitlement without
further consent of any other person, (B) the Securities Intermediary for such
United States Securities Entitlement is a participant in the book entry
system maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank that is acting as fiscal agent
for the issuer of such United States Securities Entitlement and (C) such
Federal Reserve Bank has indicated by book entry that such United States
Securities Entitlement has been credited to such Securities Intermediary s
securities account in such book entry system.

-8- 

Contribution Agreement  means the Contribution Agreement, dated as
of the Initial Closing Date, between SPV and the Origination Trust, as
amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its
terms.

Controlled Group  means, with respect to any Person, such Person,
whether or not incorporated, and any corporation, trade or business that is,
along with such Person, a member of a controlled group of corporations or a
controlled group of trades or businesses, as described in Sections 414(b) and
(c), respectively of the Code.

Corporate Trust Office  means the principal office of the
Indenture Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust
business shall be administered, which office at the date of the execution of
the Indenture is located at 450 West 33rd Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY
10001-2597, Att: Capital Markets Fiduciary Services   VMS Auto Lease Backed
Securitization.

Cost  means, with respect to any Paid-In Advance Vehicle, the
price paid for such Vehicle to the dealer, the manufacturer or a vendor, plus
delivery charges and taxes and any registration or titling fees.

Coupon  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture.

CP Rate  means the rate on commercial paper for each day set forth
in Statistical Release H.15(519),  Selected Interest Rates  published by the
Board Of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

Credit Enhancement  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes, the subordination, cash collateral account, collateral interest,
letter of credit, surety bond, insurance policy, spread account, reserve
account, cross-support feature, interest rate swap, currency swap or any
other contract or agreement for the benefit of the holder of the Investor
Notes of such Series as designated in the related Indenture Supplement.

Custodian Agreement  means the Custodian Agreement, dated as of
the Initial Closing Date, by and among the Custodian, the Servicer and the
Origination Trust, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in
accordance with its terms, and any other Custodian Agreement entered into in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Origination Trust Servicing
Agreement.

Custodian  means the party named as such in the Custodian
Agreement until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Custodian Agreement and thereafter means the successor
serving thereunder.

-9- 

Default  means any occurrence that is, or with notice or the lapse
of time or both would become, an Event of Default.

Definitions List  means this Definitions List, as amended or
modified from time to time.

Definitive Notes  is defined in Section 2.10 of the Base
Indenture.

Delinquency Ratio  means, for any specified Settlement Date, the
quotient, expressed as a percentage, of (a) the aggregate billings with
respect to all Leases and all Fleet Receivables which were unpaid for 60 days
or more from the original due date thereof as of the last day of the
immediately preceding Monthly Period divided by (b) the sum of (i) the
aggregate billings with respect to all Leases and all Fleet Receivables which
were unpaid as of the last day of the second preceding Monthly Period and
(ii) the aggregate amount billed with respect to all Leases and all Fleet
Receivables during the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Delivery  means (a) with respect to any Physical Property (that is
not either a United States Security Entitlement or a Security Entitlement),
physical delivery thereof to the Indenture Trustee or its nominee or
custodian by an effective endorsement, or registered in the name of, the
Indenture Trustee or its nominee or custodian endorsed in blank and (b) with
respect to any Uncertificated Security, the issuer thereof registers the
Indenture Trustee as the registered owner thereof or the Indenture Trustee
otherwise satisfies the requirements of Revised Article 8.

Depository  is defined in Section 2.10 of the Base Indenture.

Depository Agreement  means, with respect to a Series having Book-
Entry Notes, the agreement among the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and the
Clearing Agency or the Foreign Clearing Agency, or as otherwise provided in
the related Indenture Supplement.

Deposit Date  means each Business Day on which Collections are
deposited into the Collection Account.

Deposit Report  is defined in Section 4.1 of the Base Indenture.

Determination Date  means the second Business Day prior to each
Settlement Date.

Dividend Rate  means, with respect to each series of Preferred
Membership Interests, the rate at which distributions of interest with
respect to such Preferred Membership Interests are made.

-10- 

Dollar  and the symbol  $  mean the lawful currency of the United
States.

Eligible Consumer Lease  means a Consumer Lease that as of the
date allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio satisfied the following
eligibility criteria (or, in the case of clause (xxiii) below, satisfied the
criteria set therein as of the later of the date allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio and October 28, 1999):

(i) it was not a Charged-Off Lease;

(ii) it was not an Ineligible Delinquent Lease;

(iii) it was an obligation of an Eligible Obligor;

(iv) it had an initial term of 60 months or less;

(v) it was denominated and payable only in Dollars in the United
States;

(vi) it was originated and has been administered since origination
in accordance with Applicable Law;

(vii) it was originated in accordance with the Policies;

(viii) it did not contravene in any material respect any Applicable
Law and VMS or PHH Consumer Lease is not in violation in any material
respect of any Applicable Law in connection with it;

(ix) it was not subject to any dispute in whole or in part or to
any offset, counterclaim, defense, rescission, recoupment or
subordination;

(x) it was the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Obligor
thereunder, enforceable against such Obligor to pay the full amount
thereof in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be
limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium
or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors  rights generally
and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by
proceedings in equity or law);

(xi) the Origination Trust has only one  original  counterpart of
such Consumer Lease and such original is held by the Custodian;

(xii) it is either an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease;

-11- 

(xiii) it is a  hell or high water  net lease under which the
Obligor s payment obligations thereunder are absolute, unconditional and
noncancellable and not subject to abatement or adjustment;

(xiv) the Obligor thereunder is required to maintain casualty
insurance with respect to the related Leased Vehicle in accordance with
the Policies;

(xv) any consents, approvals or authorizations necessary for the
assignment and sale thereof by PHH Consumer Lease to SPV and by SPV to
the Origination Trust have been obtained;

(xvi) if not originated by the Origination Trust, all right, title
and interest in it has been validly sold by PHH Consumer Lease to SPV
pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement and validly assigned by SPV to
the Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution Agreement;

(xvii) the Obligor of which has accepted the related Leased Vehicle;

(xviii) it provides for equal monthly depreciation payments and
accrues a finance or other lease charge on the Net Book Value of the
related Leased Vehicle at a floating rate at least equal to the CP Rate
from time to time or at a fixed rate;

(xix) if a Closed-End Lease, the Stated Residual Value of the
related Leased Vehicle was no greater than the ALG Residual Value
thereof at origination;

(xx) if a Fixed Rate Lease, on or before the date on which such
Fixed Rate Lease was allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio, the Issuer
held any Lease Rate Cap with respect to such Fixed Rate Lease required
to be held by the Issuer by the terms of any Indenture Supplement;

(xxi) if a Floating Rate Lease, the Obligor thereunder has no right
to convert the floating rate at which the finance charges accrue
thereunder to a fixed rate;

(xxii) the Leased Vehicle leased thereunder (x) is free and clear of
all Liens (other than Permitted Liens) and (y) the Certificate of Title
for such Leased Vehicle is registered in the name of the Origination
Trust; and

(xxiii) the Certificate of Title for the Leased Vehicle leased
thereunder indicates only a Lien in the name of (1) PHH Consumer Lease,
in the case of a Consumer Lease originated by PHH Consumer Lease and
assigned to the Origination Trust or a Consumer Lease originated by the
Origination Trust prior to September 30, 1999 or (2) SPV, in the case of

-12- 

all other Consumer Leases (or, such a Certificate of Title has been
applied for).

Eligible Deposit Account  means (a) a segregated identifiable
trust account established in the trust department of a Qualified Trust
Institution or (b) a separately identifiable deposit account established in
the deposit taking department of a Qualified Institution.

Eligible Lease  means either (a) a Lease that as of the date
allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio was an Eligible Consumer Lease or (b) a
Lease that as of the date allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio was under an
Eligible Master Lease and satisfied the following eligibility criteria (or,
in the case of clause (j) below satisfied the criteria set forth therein as
of the later of the date allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio and October
28,1999):

(a) it had an initial term of 144 months or less and a remaining
term of 120 months or less;

(b) the Obligor of which has accepted the related Leased Vehicle;

(c) except for any Lease that is an Additional Equipment Asset, if
an Open-End Lease, it provides for equal monthly depreciation payments
and, if a Closed-End Lease, it provides for monthly depreciation
payments that over the term of the Lease reduce the Capitalized Cost of
the related Leased Vehicle to the Stated Residual Value thereof;

(d) if an Open-End Lease that is an Additional Equipment Asset, it
provides for at least quarterly depreciation payments and, if a Closed-
End Lease that is an Additional Equipment Asset, it provides for at
least quarterly depreciation payments that over the term of the Lease
reduce the Capitalized Cost of the related Leased Vehicle to the Stated
Residual Value thereof;

(e) it accrues a finance or other lease charge on the Net Book
Value of the related Leased Vehicle at a floating rate at least equal to
the CP Rate from time to time or at a fixed rate;

(f) if a Closed-End Lease, the Stated Residual Value of the
related Leased Vehicle was no greater than the ALG Residual Value
thereof at origination or, in the case of any Leased Vehicle the
residual value of which is not specified in the ALG Residual Percentage
Guide published by the Automotive Lease Guide, the estimated residual
value of the related Leased Vehicle contained in a comparable industry
source of equipment residual values or if such a source is not
available, contained in a source VMS believes is reasonable;

-13- 

(g) on or before the date on which such Lease was allocated to the
Lease SUBI Portfolio, the Issuer held any Lease Rate Cap with respect to
such Lease required to be held by the terms of the Indenture or any
Indenture Supplement;

(h) if a Floating Rate Lease and the Obligor thereunder has the
right to convert the floating rate at which the finance charges accrue
thereunder to a fixed rate, upon conversion the fixed rate will be at
least equal to the sum of the PHH Treasury Note Rate on the conversion
date and 0.50%;

(i) the Leased Vehicle leased thereunder (x) is free and clear of
all Liens (other than Permitted Liens) and (y) if such Leased Vehicle is
subject to a certificate of title act or statute, the Certificate of
Title for such Leased Vehicle is registered in the name of the
Origination Trust; and

(j) (x) if the Leased Vehicle leased thereunder is subject to a
certificate of title act or statute, the Certificate of Title for such
Leased Vehicle indicates only a Lien in the name of (1) VMS, in the case
of a Lease originated by VMS and assigned to the Origination Trust or a
Lease originated by the Origination Trust prior to September 30, 1999 or
(2) SPV, in the case of all other Leases (or, such a Certificate of
Title has been applied for) or (y) if such Leased Vehicle is not subject
to a certificate of title act or statute, all filings necessary to
evidence the security interest of (1) VMS, in the case of a Lease
originated by VMS and assigned to the Origination Trust or (2) SPV, in
the case of all other Leases, in such Leased Vehicle have been made in
all appropriate jurisdictions.

Eligible Master Lease  will mean each Master Lease Agreement that
as of the date a Lease thereunder or Paid-In Advance Vehicle relating thereto
is allocated to the Lease SUBI satisfied the following eligibility criteria:

(a) it was not a Charged-Off Lease;

(b) it was not an Ineligible Delinquent Lease;

(c) it was an obligation of an Eligible Obligor;

(d) it was denominated and payable only in Dollars in the United
States;

(e) it was originated and has been administered since origination
in accordance with Applicable Law;

(f) it was originated in accordance with the Policies;

-14- 

(g) it did not contravene in any material respect any Applicable
Law and VMS is not in violation in any material respect of any
Applicable Law in connection with it;

(h) it was not subject to any dispute in whole or in part or to any
offset, counterclaim, defense, rescission, recoupment or subordination;

(i) it was the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Obligor
thereunder, enforceable against such Obligor to pay the full amount
thereof in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be
limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium
or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors  rights generally
and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by
proceedings in equity or law);

(j) the Origination Trust has only one  original  counterpart of
such Master Lease Agreement and such original is held by the Custodian;

(k) it is either an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease;

(l) it is a  hell or high water  net lease under which the
Obligor s payment obligations thereunder are absolute, unconditional and
noncancellable and not subject to abatement or adjustment;

(m) the Obligor thereunder is required to maintain casualty
insurance or to self-insure with respect to the related Leased Vehicles
in accordance with the Policies;

(n) any consents, approvals or authorizations necessary for the
assignment and sale thereof by VMS to the Origination Trust have been
obtained; and

-15- 

(o) if not originated by the Origination Trust, all right, title
and interest in it has been (i) validly sold to the Origination Trust by
VMS pursuant to that certain Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated
December 17, 1998, (ii) validly assigned to the Origination Trust by SPV
pursuant to the Contribution Agreement or (iii), in the case of any
Master Lease Agreement that is an Additional Equipment Asset, validly
assigned to the Origination Trust by SPV pursuant to the Additional
Equipment Assets Contribution Agreement and, if assigned by SPV to the
Origination Trust, was validly sold by VMS to SPV pursuant to the Asset
Purchase Agreement or, in the case of any Master Lease Agreement that is
an Additional Equipment Asset, validly sold by VMS to SPV pursuant to
the Additional Equipment Assets Assignment and Assumption Agreement.

Eligible Obligor  means each Obligor in respect of a Master Lease
Agreement, a Consumer Lease or a Fleet Receivable that satisfies the
following eligibility criteria:

(a) its billing address is located in the United States;

(b) it is not the United States federal government, or any
subdivision thereof, or any agency, department or instrumentality
thereof;

(c) it is not an Affiliate of ARAC; and

(d) it is not the subject of any voluntary or involuntary
bankruptcy proceeding, unless, in the case of a Master Lease Agreement,
a bankruptcy court shall have entered an order reaffirming such
Obligor s obligations under such Master Lease Agreement.

Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle  means a Unit Paid-In Advance
Vehicle acquired at the request of an Obligor who as of the date such Paid-In
Advance Vehicle is allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio is party to an
Eligible Master Lease or has agreed to be bound by a Master Lease Agreement.

Eligible Receivables  means, as of any date of determination, each
Fleet Receivable that satisfies the following eligibility criteria:

(a) it is an obligation of an Eligible Obligor;

(b) it is not a Charged-Off Receivable;

(c) it is denominated and payable only in Dollars in the United
States;

(d) it and the related Fleet Service Contract do not contravene in
any material respect any Applicable Law and VMS is not in violation in

-16- 

any material respect of any Applicable Law in connection with it or the
related Fleet Service Contract;

(e) the related Fleet Service Contract was originated in accordance
with the Policies;

(f) it has been billed, the goods or services giving rise to it
have been provided and it is payable within 45 days of the billing date;

(g) it is an  eligible asset  within the meaning of Rule 3a-7
promulgated under the Investment Company Act;

(h) it is not subject to the laws of any jurisdiction whose laws
would prohibit the assignment and sale thereof by VMS to SPV pursuant to
the Receivable Purchase Agreement and the contribution thereof by SPV to
the Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution Agreement;

(i) any consents, approvals or authorizations necessary for the
assignment and sale thereof by VMS to SPV pursuant to the Receivable
Purchase Agreement and the contribution thereof by SPV to the
Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution Agreement have been
obtained with respect to such Fleet Receivable;

(j) all right, title and interest in it has been validly sold by
VMS to SPV pursuant to the Receivable Purchase Agreement and validly
assigned by SPV to the Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution
Agreement;

(k) the Origination Trust has legal and beneficial ownership
therein free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens;

(l) it is not subject to any dispute in whole or in part or to any
offset, counterclaim, defense, rescission, recoupment or subordination;

(m) it is at all times the legal, valid and binding obligation of
the Obligor thereon, enforceable against such Obligor to pay the full
amount thereof in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability
may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors 
rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether
enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or law); and

(n) it constitutes an  account  or a  general intangible  under the
applicable UCC.

-17- 

Enhancement Provider  means, with respect to any Series, the
Person, if any, designated as such in the related Indenture Supplement.

ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended, and any successor statute of similar import, in each case as in
effect from time to time. References to sections of ERISA also refer to any
successor sections.

Euroclear  means Euroclear System.

Event of Default  is defined in Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture.

Excess Consumer Lease Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the excess, if
any, of (a) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible Leases that are
Consumer Leases allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day of
the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period
over (b) an amount equal to 1.0% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such
date.

Excess Damage Charges  means the charges under a Lease due to
damage to the related Leased Vehicle over a prescribed limit.

Excess Fleet Receivable Amount  means, with respect to any
Settlement Date, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate
amount of Collections in respect of the Fleet Receivables received by the
Issuer during the immediately preceding Monthly Period over (b) the Class X
1999-1B Invested Amount as of the immediately preceding Settlement Date.

Excess High Lease Balance Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the excess, if
any, of (a) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible Leases having a Lease
Balance in excess of $1,000,000 allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of
the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of
such Accrual Period over (b) an amount equal to 0.50% of the Aggregate Lease
Balance as of such date.

Excess Longer-Term Lease Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the greater of (a)
the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible Leases
having remaining terms of longer than five years allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the
first day of such Accrual Period over (ii) an amount equal to 15% of the
Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date and (b) the excess, if any, of (i)
the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible Leases having remaining terms of
longer than seven years allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last
day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual

-18- 

Period over (ii) an amount equal to 5% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of
such date.

Excess Mileage Charges  means the charges under a Lease due to
mileage on the related Leased Vehicle over a prescribed limit.

Excess Paid-In-Advance Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the greatest of
(a) the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Cost of each Eligible Paid-In
Advance Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the last day of
the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period
(or, if any such Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle was allocated to the Lease
SUBI after the last day of such Monthly Period, the Cost thereof as of the
date such Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle was allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio) over (ii) an amount equal to 10% of the Aggregate Unit Balance as
of such date, (b) the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Cost of each
Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio for
more than 60 days as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately
preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (ii) an amount equal to
2.5% of the Aggregate Unit Balance as of such date and (c) the aggregate Cost
of each Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicle allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio for more than 120 days as of the last day of the Monthly Period
immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period.

Excess Residual Value Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the excess, if
any, of (i) the Aggregate Residual Value Amount as of such date over (ii) an
amount equal to 10% of the Aggregate Unit Balance as of such date.

Excess State Obligor Risk Amount  means, as of any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the excess, if
any, of (a) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Eligible Leases the Obligor of
which is a state or local government or any subdivision thereof, or any
agency, department or instrumentality thereof allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding the
first day of such Accrual Period over (b) an amount equal to 3.0% of the
Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date.

Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

Existing Liens  means a claim for $914,160,108.23 owing to The
Chase Manhattan Bank.

Expected Final Distribution Date  means, with respect to any
applicable Series of Investor Notes, the date, if any, stated in the related

-19- 

Indenture Supplement as the date on which such Series of Investor Notes is
expected to be paid in full.

FDIC  means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Fixed Rate Lease  means a Lease accruing finance charges at a
fixed rate per annum.

Fleet Receivables  means all amounts payable under the Fleet
Service Contracts, a beneficial interest in a portion of which is represented
by the Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate.

Fleet Receivable SUBI  means that special unit of beneficial
interest in the Origination Trust created by the Fleet Receivable SUBI
Supplement in a pool of Fleet Receivables acquired by SPV from VMS pursuant
to the Receivable Purchase Agreement and contributed by SPV to the
Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution Agreement and all Origination
Trust Assets associated with the Fleet Receivables, including all right,
title and interest of SPV under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.

Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate  means the Class X 1999-1B Sold
SUBI Certificate, a certificate of beneficial ownership, representing a
portion of the Fleet Receivable SUBI issued pursuant to the Fleet Receivable
SUBI Supplement.

Fleet Receivable SUBI Supplement  means the Sold SUBI Supplement
1999-1B to the Origination Trust Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing
Date, among SPV, as settlor and initial beneficiary, VMS, as UTI Trustee and
Servicer, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Delaware Trustee and SUBI Trustee.

Fleet Service Contract  means a fleet maintenance contract, fleet
management contract, fuel card contract or any other service contract the
fees for which are billed or would be billed by VMS, together with the
Leases.

Floating Rate Lease  means a Lease accruing finance charges at a
floating rate per annum.

Foreign Clearing Agency  means Cedel and Euroclear.

GAAP  means the generally accepted accounting principles
promulgated or adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its
predecessors and successors from time to time.

Gain on Sale Account  is defined in Section 5.2 of the Base
Indenture.

-20- 

Global Note  is defined in Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture.

Governmental Authority  means the United States of America, any
state or other political subdivision thereof and any entity exercising
executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of
or pertaining to government.

Hedging Instrument  means one or more Lease Rate Caps or other
interest rate swap contracts or similar contracts entered into by, or
assigned to, the Issuer, as specified in the Base Indenture or any Indenture
Supplement, providing limited protection against interest rate risks.

Incidental Lease Termination Charges  means all Excess Damage
Charges, Excess Mileage Charges and any charges imposed upon the early
termination of a Lease.

Indebtedness , as applied to any Person, means, without
duplication, (a) all indebtedness for borrowed money, (b) that portion of
obligations with respect to any lease of any property (whether real, personal
or mixed) that is properly classified as a liability on a balance sheet in
conformity with GAAP, (c) notes payable and drafts accepted representing
extensions of credit whether or not representing obligations for borrowed
money, (d) any obligation owed for all or any part of the deferred purchase
price for property or services, which purchase price is (i) due more than six
months from the date of the incurrence of the obligation in respect thereof
or (ii) evidenced by a note or similar written instrument, (e) all
indebtedness secured by any Lien on any property or asset owned by that
Person regardless of whether the indebtedness secured thereby shall have been
assumed by that Person or is nonrecourse to the credit of that Person, and
(f) without duplicating any of the foregoing, all Contingent Obligations of
such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.

Indenture  means the Base Indenture and all amendments thereof and
supplements thereto, including any Indenture Supplement.

Indenture Supplement  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, a supplement to the Base Indenture complying with the terms
of Section 2.2 of the Base Indenture, executed in conjunction with any
issuance of any Series of Investor Notes (or, in the case of the issuance of
Investor Notes on the Initial Closing Date, the supplement executed in
connection with the issuance of such Notes).

Indenture Trustee  means the party named as such in the Indenture
until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving thereunder.

-21- 

Independent  means, when used with respect to any specified
Person, that the person (a) is in fact independent of the Issuer, any other
obligor upon the Investor Notes, VMS and any Affiliate of any of the
foregoing persons, (b) does not have any direct financial interest or any
material indirect financial interest in the Issuer, any such other obligor,
VMS or any Affiliate of any of the foregoing Persons and (c) is not connected
with the Issuer, any such other obligor, VMS or any Affiliate of any of the
foregoing Persons as an officer, employee, promoter, underwriter, trustee,
partner, director or Person performing similar functions.

Independent Certificate  means a certificate or opinion to be
delivered to the Indenture Trustee under the circumstances described in, and
otherwise complying with, the applicable requirements of Section 13.1, of the
Base Indenture made by an Independent engineer, appraiser or other expert
appointed by the Issuer and approved by the Indenture Trustee in the exercise
of reasonable care, and such opinion or certificate shall state that the
signer has read the definition of  Independent  herein and that the signer is
Independent within the meaning thereof.
the Base Indenture.

Independent Manager  is defined in the LLC Agreement.

Ineligible Delinquent Lease  means (a) a Master Lease Agreement as
to which 50% or greater of the billings to the Obligor thereof remain unpaid
for more than 60 days from the original due date or which has been declared
in default under the Policies or (b) a Consumer Lease as to which any amounts
remain unpaid for more than 60 days from the original due date or which has
been declared in default under the Policies.

Initial Aggregate Lease Balance  means $2,504,471,579.

Initial Assignment  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Transfer
Agreement.

Initial Closing Date  means June 30, 1999.

Initial Cut-off Date  means June 18, 1999.

Initial Invested Amount  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the aggregate initial principal amount specified in the
related Indenture Supplement.

Initial Units  means, as of the Initial Closing Date, all Units
allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the Initial Closing Date.

Insolvency Event  means, as to any Person:

-22- 

(a)(i) a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a
decree or order for relief in respect of such Person in an involuntary
case under the Bankruptcy Code or any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency
or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, which decree or order
is not stayed, or any other similar relief shall be granted under any
applicable federal or state law, (ii) an involuntary case is commenced
against such Person under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other
similar law now or hereafter in effect which remains undismissed,
undischarged or unbonded for a period of 60 days or (iii) such Person
shall have a decree or an order for relief entered with respect to it or
commence a voluntary case under the Bankruptcy Code or any applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect;

(b) such Person shall consent to the appointment of a conservator
or receiver or liquidator in any insolvency, readjustment of debt,
marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings of or
relating to all or substantially all of its property, or a decree or
order of a court or agency or supervisory authority having jurisdiction
in the premises for the appointment of a conservator or receiver or
liquidator in any insolvency, readjustment of debt, marshaling of assets
and liabilities or similar proceedings, or for the winding-up or
liquidation of its affairs, shall have been entered against such Person;
or such Person shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts
generally as they become due, file a petition to take advantage of any
applicable insolvency or reorganization statute, make an assignment for
the benefit of its creditors or voluntarily suspend payment of its
obligations.

Interest Period  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes, the period specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Invested Amount  means, with respect to each Series of Investor
Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Invested Percentage  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes, the percentage specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Investment Company Act  means the Investment Company Act of 1940,
as amended.

Investor Noteholder  and  Holder  means the Person in whose name
an Investor Note is registered in the Note Register.

Investor Notes  means any one of the promissory notes (including,
without limitation, the Bearer Notes, the Registered Notes or the Global
Notes) issued by the Issuer, executed by the Issuer and authenticated by the
Indenture Trustee substantially in the form (or forms in the case of a Series

-23- 

of Notes with multiple Classes) of the investor note attached to the related
Indenture Supplement.

Issuer  means Greyhound Funding LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company.

Issuer Accounts  means the Collection Account and each Series
Account.

Issuer Assets  means all assets of the Issuer, including, among
other things, the SUBIs, the SUBI Certificates (including all rights of the
holder thereof under the Origination Trust Documents), the Units, any Hedging
Instruments, the Transfer Agreement, the Administration Agreement, the
Management Agreement and all proceeds of the foregoing.

Issuer General Account  is defined in the LLC Agreement.

Issuer Obligations  means all principal and interest, at any time
and from time to time, owing by the Issuer on the Investor Notes and all
costs, fees and expenses payable by, or obligations of, the Issuer under the
Indenture.

Issuer Order  and  Issuer Request  means a written order or
request signed in the name of the Issuer by any one of its Authorized
Officers and delivered to the Indenture Trustee.

Junior Preferred Member  means a Person in whose name a Junior
Preferred Membership Interest is registered in the Register.

Junior Preferred Membership Interests  means the Junior Preferred
Membership Interests issued pursuant to the LLC Agreement.

Lease Balance  means, as of any date of determination, with
respect to (a) any Open-End Lease, an amount equal to the Net Book Value of
the Leased Vehicle subject to such Lease and (b) any Closed-End Lease, an
amount equal to the sum of all remaining monthly lease payments (other than
payments of finance charges and other incidental fees) due in respect of such
Leased Vehicle on or after such date; provided, however that the Lease
Balance of a Charged-Off Lease shall be zero.

Lease Balance Decline  means, for any Lease for any Settlement
Date, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the Lease Balance of such Lease as of
the last day of the Monthly Period preceding the Monthly Period immediately
preceding such Settlement Date less the Lease Balance of such Lease as of the
last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding such Settlement Date
plus (b), in the case of a Closed-End Lease, the Net Book Value of the

-24- 

related Unit Vehicle if such Unit Vehicle shall have become a Residual Value
Vehicle during the Monthly Period immediately preceding such Settlement Date.

Lease  means an Open-End Lease or a Closed-End Lease originated by
or on behalf of VMS, PHH Financial Services or the Origination Trust pursuant
to a Master Lease Agreement or a Consumer Lease originated by or on behalf of
VMS or the Origination Trust.

Leased Vehicle  means the Vehicle subject to a Lease.

Lease Rate Cap  means any interest rate caps that are required to
be maintained by the Issuer pursuant to the Indenture or any Indenture
Supplement.

Lease SUBI  means that special unit of beneficial interest in the
Origination Trust created by the Lease SUBI Supplement.

Lease SUBI Certificate  means the certificate of beneficial
ownership, representing beneficial ownership in the Sold Units allocated to
the Lease SUBI Portfolio issued pursuant to the Lease SUBI Supplement.

Lease SUBI Portfolio  or  1999-1A Sold SUBI Portfolio  means the
Origination Trust Assets that are from time to time allocated to the Lease
SUBI in accordance with the terms of the Origination Trust Documents.

Lease SUBI Supplement  means the Sold SUBI Supplement 1999-1A to
the Origination Trust Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, as
amended as of October 28, 1999, among SPV, as settlor and initial
beneficiary, VMS, as UTI Trustee and Servicer, and Wilmington Trust Company,
as Delaware Trustee and SUBI Trustee.

Lien  means, when used with respect to any Person, any interest in
any real or personal property, asset or other right held, owned or being
purchased or acquired by such Person which secures payment or performance of
any obligation, and shall include any mortgage, lien, pledge, encumbrance,
charge, retained security title of a conditional vendor or lessor, or other
security interest of any kind, whether arising under a security agreement,
mortgage, lease, deed of trust, chattel mortgage, assignment, pledge,
retention or security title, financing or similar statement, or notice or
arising as a matter of law, judicial process or otherwise.

LLC Agreement  means the Amended and Restated Limited Liability
Agreement of the Issuer, dated as of October 28, 1999, as amended, modified
or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms.

Lockout Period  means the period from and including the date on
which each Outstanding Series of Investor Notes shall have been declared to

-25- 

be immediately due and payable as a result of the occurrence of an Event of
Default defined in clause (a) or (b) of Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture to
and including the date on which the principal of and interest on all Series
of Investor Notes shall have been paid in full.

Luxembourg Agent  is defined in Section 2.3(c) of the Base
Indenture.

Majority in Interest  of each Series of Investor Notes means
Noteholders of such Series holding Investor Notes evidencing more than 50% by
outstanding principal amount of each Class of Investor Notes of such Series.

Management Agreement  means the Management Agreement, dated as of
the Initial Closing Date, by and among the Managing Agent, the Issuer and the
Administrator, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in
accordance with its terms.

Manager  is defined in the LLC Agreement.

Managing Agent  means Global Securitization Services LLC or a
successor Managing Agent under the Management Agreement.

Master Lease Agreement  means each master lease agreement between
an Obligor and (a) VMS and assigned by VMS to the Origination Trust or
assigned by VMS to SPV and by SPV to the Origination Trust, (b) PHH Financial
Services and assigned by PHH Financial Services to VMS, by VMS to SPV and by
SPV to the Origination Trust or (c) the Origination Trust, in each case, in
all material respects in a form attached to the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing
Supplement.

Material Adverse Effect  means, with respect to any occurrence,
event or condition:

(i) a material adverse effect on the Issuer s title to the SUBI
Certificates or the beneficial interest in the Sold Units or Fleet
Receivables represented thereby;

(ii) a material adverse effect on the validity, status, perfection
or priority of the Lien of the Indenture Trustee in the Collateral;

(iii) a material adverse effect on the business, properties,
financial condition or results of operations of the Issuer or the
ability of the Issuer to perform its obligations under the Indenture;

(iv) a material adverse effect on the business, properties,
financial condition or results of operations of ARAC and its
subsidiaries as a whole; or

-26- 

(v) a material adverse effect on the validity or enforceability of
the Indenture or any of the other Transaction Documents.

Maximum Invested Amount  means, with respect to each Series of
Investor Notes, the amount, if any, specified in the related Indenture
Supplement.

Member  means a Preferred Member or the Common Member.

Membership Interest  means a Preferred Membership Interest or the
Common Membership Interest.

Minimum Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance  means the sum of the
numerators used on such date to calculate the Invested Percentage with
respect to Collections for all Series of Outstanding Investor Notes on such
date.

Monthly Period  means, unless otherwise defined in any Indenture
Supplement, the period from and including a Period End Date (or, in the case
of the initial Monthly Period, from the Initial Cutoff Date) to but excluding
the succeeding Period End Date.

Monthly Residual Value Gain  means, for any Monthly Period, an
amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) all Termination Proceeds for
such Monthly Period for all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles
during such Monthly Period and all prior Monthly Periods over (b) the
aggregate Net Book Values of all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value
Vehicles during such Monthly Period.

Monthly Residual Value Loss  means, for any Monthly Period, an
amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate Net Book Values of
all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles during such Monthly
Period over (b) all Termination Proceeds for such Monthly Period for all Unit
Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles during such Monthly Period and
all prior Monthly Periods.

Monthly Servicer Advance  means the aggregate amount of funds
advanced by the Servicer to the Issuer on any Settlement Date for deposit in
the Collection Account in respect of monthly lease payments due but not
received during the immediately preceding Monthly Period on the Sold Units
and in respect of Fleet Receivables due but not received during the
immediately preceding Monthly Period in accordance with the Series 1999-1
SUBI Servicing Supplement.

Monthly Servicer Advance Reimbursement Amount  means, on any
Settlement Date, the aggregate amount payable to the Servicer in
reimbursement of amounts previously advanced by the Servicer in respect of

-27- 

delinquent monthly lease payments and delinquent Fleet Receivables pursuant
to Section 7.4 of the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement on such
Settlement Date.

Monthly Settlement Statement  means, with respect to each Series
of Outstanding Investor Notes, the settlement statement in the form attached
to the related Indenture Supplement delivered by the Issuer to the Indenture
Trustee pursuant to Section 4.4(a) of the Base Indenture.

Moody s  means Moody s Investors Service, Inc.

Net Book Value  means, as of any date of determination during an
Accrual Period with respect to each Leased Vehicle, such Leased Vehicle s
Capitalized Cost minus the sum of (a) all monthly lease payments billed
thereunder (other than payments of finance charges and other incidental
fees) in respect of such Leased Vehicle through such date and (b) in the case
of a Leased Vehicle subject to an Open-End Lease, all proceeds from the sale
or disposition of such Leased Vehicle received during the Monthly Period
immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period.

1999-1B Sold SUBI Portfolio  means the Origination Trust Assets
that are from time to time allocated to the Fleet Receivable SUBI in
accordance with the terms of the Origination Trust Documents.

Note Rate  means, with respect to any Series of Investor Notes,
the annual rate at which interest accrues on the Investor Notes of such
Series of Investor Notes (or formula on the basis of which such rate shall be
determined) as stated in the related Indenture Supplement.

Note Register  means the register maintained pursuant to Section
2.4(a) of the Base Indenture, providing for the registration of the Investor
Notes and transfers and exchanges thereof.

Obligor  means, with respect to any Lease or Fleet Receivable, the
Person or Persons obligated to make payment with respect to such Lease or
Fleet Receivable, including any guarantor thereof.

Officer s Certificate  means a certificate signed by an Authorized
Officer of the Issuer, SPV, the Origination Trust, the Servicer or the
Administrator, as the case may be.

Open-End Lease  means a lease obligation in respect of a single
vehicle which may arise pursuant to a master lease agreement providing for
the lease of a fleet of vehicles or pursuant to a lease agreement providing
for the lease of a single vehicle that, in each case, obligates the lessee
thereunder to pay the lessor at lease termination any deficit between the
sales proceeds from the sale of the vehicle subject thereto and the book

-28- 

value thereof (other than the portion of any deficit resulting from the sales
proceeds being less than 16% of the fair market value thereof determined in
accordance with such lease).

Opinion of Counsel  means a written opinion from legal counsel who
is acceptable to the Indenture Trustee. The counsel may be an employee of or
counsel to the Issuer, SPV, VMS, the Origination Trust, the Administrator or
the Servicer, as the case may be.

Origination Trust  means D.L. Peterson Trust, a statutory business
trust organized under the laws of the State of Delaware.

Origination Trust Agreement  means the Amended and Restated
Origination Trust Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, among SPV,
as settlor and initial beneficiary, VMS, as UTI Trustee, and Wilmington Trust
Company, as Delaware Trustee, as amended, supplemented and modified by the
Lease SUBI Supplement and the Fleet Receivable SUBI Supplement and as the
same may be further amended, supplemented or modified from time to time.

Origination Trust Assets  means all assets, at any time, owned by
the Origination Trust at such time.

Origination Trust Documents  means the Origination Trust
Agreement, including the Lease SUBI Supplement and the Fleet Receivable SUBI
Supplement, the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, including the Series
1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement, the ARAC Guaranty, the Custodian Agreement,
the SUBI Certificates, the Receivable Purchase Agreement, the Asset Purchase
Agreement, the Contribution Agreement, the Additional Equipment Assets
Assignment and Assumption Agreement and the Additional Equipment Assets
Contribution Agreement.

Origination Trust Servicing Agreement  means the Origination Trust
Servicing Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, between the
Origination Trust and the Servicer as amended, supplemented and modified by
the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement and as the same may be further
amended, supplemented or modified from time to time.

Outstanding  has the meaning, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, set forth in the related Indenture Supplement.

Overconcentration Amount  means, as of any date of determination
during an Accrual Period, an amount equal to the greatest of (a) the
aggregate Lease Balance of the Eligible Leases to which the Obligors having
the five largest aggregate Lease Balances of Eligible Leases allocated to the
Lease SUBI Portfolio are a party as of the last day of the Monthly Period
immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (ii) an
amount equal to 15% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date, (b) the

-29- 

aggregate Lease Balance of the Eligible Leases to which the Obligors having
the ten largest aggregate Lease Balances of Eligible Leases allocated to the
Lease SUBI Portfolio are a party as of the last day of the Monthly Period
immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period over (ii) an
amount equal to 25% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such date and (c)
the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate Lease Balance of the Eligible Leases
to which the Obligor having the largest aggregate Lease Balance of Eligible
Leases allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio is a party as of the last day of
the Monthly Period immediately preceding the first day of such Accrual Period
over (ii) an amount equal to 4% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such
date; provided, however that if the long-term debt obligations of such
Obligor are not rated at least Baa3 by Moody s as of such date, the amount in
this clause (ii) shall equal 3% of the Aggregate Lease Balance as of such
date.

Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio  means, for any specified Settlement
Date, the quotient, expressed as a percentage, of (a) the excess, if any, of
(i) the aggregate Cost of all Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles that became
Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles during the immediately preceding Monthly
Period over (ii) all Paid-In Advance Proceeds received by the Servicer during
the preceding Monthly Period for all Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles that
became Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles during such Monthly Period and all
prior Monthly Periods divided by (b) the aggregate Cost of all Unit Paid-In
Advance Vehicles that became Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles during the
immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Paid-In Advance Proceeds  means for any Rejected Paid-In Advance
Vehicle the sum of all amounts received by the Servicer upon, after or in
connection with the sale or other disposition of such Rejected Paid-In
Advance Vehicle, net of any and all out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred
by the Servicer in connection with such sale or other disposition, and any
and all amounts received from the related Obligor in connection with such
Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicle.

Paid-In Advance Vehicle  means a Vehicle acquired at the request
of an Obligor who is either a party to a Master Lease Agreement or who has
agreed to be bound by a Master Lease Agreement but not yet accepted by such
Obligor.

Paying Agent  means any paying agent appointed pursuant to Section
2.6 of the Base Indenture.

Payment Date  means, with respect to each Series of Investor
Notes, the dates set forth in the related Indenture Supplement.

PBGC  means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established
pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA.

-30- 

Pension Plan  means any  employee pension benefit plan , as such
term is defined in ERISA, which is subject to Title IV of ERISA (other than a
 multiemployer plan , as defined in Section 4001 of ERISA) and to which any
company in the Controlled Group has liability, including any liability by
reason of having been a substantial employer within the meaning of Section
4063 of ERISA for any time within the preceding five years or by reason of
being deemed to be a contributing sponsor under Section 4069 of ERISA.

Period End Date  means each date set forth in Schedule X to the
Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement, as such schedule is amended and
supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms of the Series
1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement.

Permitted Investments  means negotiable instruments or securities,
payable in Dollars, issued by an entity organized under the laws of the
United States of America and represented by instruments in bearer or
registered or in book-entry form which evidence (excluding any security with
the  r  symbol attached to its rating):

(i) obligations the full and timely payment of which are to be made
by or is fully guaranteed by the United States of America other than
financial contracts whose value depends on the values or indices of
asset values;

(ii) demand deposits of, time deposits in, or certificates of
deposit issued by, any depositary institution or trust company
incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any state
thereof whose short-term debt is rated P-1 or higher by Moody s and
 A-1   or higher by Standard   Poor s and subject to supervision and
examination by Federal or state banking or depositary institution
authorities; provided, however, that at the earlier of (x) the time of
the investment and (y) the time of the contractual commitment to invest
therein, the long-term unsecured debt obligations (other than such
obligation whose rating is based on collateral or on the credit of a
Person other than such institution or trust company) of such depositary
institution or trust company shall have a credit rating from Standard  
Poor s of not lower than  AA 

(iii) commercial paper having, at the earlier of (x) the time of
the investment and (y) the time of the contractual commitment to invest
therein, a rating from Moody s of  P-1  and Standard   Poor s of  A-1  

(iv) bankers  acceptances issued by any depositary institution or
trust company described in clause (ii) above;

-31- 

(v) investments in money market funds rated  AAAm  by Standard  
Poor s and  Aaa  by Moody s or otherwise approved in writing by the
Rating Agencies;

(vi) Eurodollar time deposits having a credit rating from Moody s
of  P-1  and Standard   Poor s of  A-1  

(vii) repurchase agreements involving any of the Permitted
Investments described in clauses (i) and (vi) above and the certificates
of deposit described in clause (ii) above which are entered into with a
depository institution or trust company, having a commercial paper or
short-term certificate of deposit rating of  A-1   by Standard   Poor s
and P-1 by Moody s or which otherwise is approved as to
collateralization by the Rating Agencies; and

(viii) any other instruments or securities, if the Rating Agencies
confirm in writing that the investment in such instruments or securities
will not adversely affect any ratings with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes.

Permitted Liens  means (i) Liens for current taxes not delinquent
or for taxes being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings,
and with respect to which adequate reserves have been established, and are
being maintained, in accordance with GAAP, (ii) mechanics , materialmen s,
landlords , warehousemen s and carrier s Liens, and other Liens imposed by
law, securing obligations arising in the ordinary course of business that are
not more than thirty days past due or are being contested in good faith and
by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves have
been established, and are being maintained, in accordance with GAAP, (iii) on
the Initial Closing Date only, the Existing Liens, (iv) Liens in favor of the
Origination Trust in the Leased Vehicles, (v) Liens in favor of the Issuer
pursuant to the Transfer Agreement, (vi) Liens in favor of the Indenture
Trustee pursuant to the Indenture, and (vii) Liens in favor of an Enhancement
Provider, provided, however, that such Liens are subordinate to the Liens in
favor of the Indenture Trustee and have been consented to by the Indenture
Trustee.

Person  means any natural person, corporation, business trust,
joint venture, association, limited liability company, partnership, joint
stock company, corporation, trust, unincorporated organization or Government
Authority.

PHH Consumer Lease  means PHH PersonaLease Corporation, a Maryland
corporation.

PHH Financial Services  means PHH Financial Services Corporation,
a Maryland corporation.

-32- 

PHH Treasury Note Rate  means, on any day between the 16th day of
the month through the 15th day of the following month, the interest rate that
is quoted in the Federal Reserve Statistical Release (H.15 Report) for two
year treasury constant maturities on the fifteenth day of that month, or the
first business day thereafter if the fifteenth day of the month falls on a
non-business day.

Physical Property  means banker s acceptances, commercial paper,
negotiable certificates of deposits and other obligations that constitute
 instruments  within the meaning of Section 9-105(l)(i) of the applicable UCC
and are susceptible to physical delivery and Certificated Securities.

Policies  means the standards, policies and procedures, including
but not limited to the credit and residual accrual policies applied by the
Servicer in originating Leases and those applied by the Servicer in its
collection and repossession activities.

Pool Factor  means, except with respect to any Series of Notes
issued in more than one Class, a number carried out to seven decimals
representing the ratio of the applicable Invested Amount as of such Record
Date (determined after taking into account any reduction in the Invested
Amount which will occur on the following Payment Date) to the applicable
Initial Invested Amount, and with respect to a Series of Notes having more
than one Class, as specified in the Indenture Supplement relating to such
Series.

Potential Amortization Event  means any occurrence or event which,
with the giving of notice, the passage of time or both, would constitute an
Amortization Event.

Potential Termination Event  means any occurrence or event which,
with the giving of notice, the passage of time or both, would constitute a
Termination Event.

Preferred Member  means a Person in whose name a Junior Preferred
Membership Interest or a Senior Preferred Membership Interest is registered
in the Register.

Preferred Membership Interests  means the Junior Preferred
Membership Interests or the Senior Preferred Membership Interests.

Principal Payment Amount  means, for any Settlement Date, the sum
of (a) the Lease Balance Declines for each Unit Lease for such Settlement
Date and (b) the aggregate Cost of all Eligible Paid-In Advance Vehicles that
became Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles during the immediately preceding
Monthly Period.

-33- 

Principal Terms  is defined in Section 2.2 of the Base Indenture.

Proceeding  means any suit in equity, action or law or other
judicial or administrative proceeding.

Qualified Institution  means a depository institution organized
under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or
incorporated under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction with a branch or agency
located in the United States of America or any State thereof and subject to
supervision and examination by federal or state banking authorities which at
all times has the Required Rating and, in the case of any such institution
organized under the laws of the United States of America, whose deposits are
insured by the FDIC.

Qualified Trust Institution  means an institution organized under
the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or incorporated
under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction with a branch or agency located in
the United States of America or any State thereof and subject to supervision
and examination by federal or state banking authorities which at all times
(i) is authorized under such laws to act as a trustee or in any other
fiduciary capacity, (ii) has not less than one billion dollars in assets
under fiduciary management, and (iii) has a long term deposits rating of not
less than  BBB-  by Standard   Poor s and Baa3 by Moody s.

Quarterly Compliance Certificate  is defined in Section 4.1(a) of
the Base Indenture.

Rating Agency  means, with respect to each Series of Notes, the
rating agency or agencies, if any, specified in the related Indenture
Supplement.

Rating Agency Condition  means, the notification in writing by the
Rating Agencies that a proposed action will not result in a reduction or
withdrawal by each such Rating Agency of the rating or credit risk assessment
of any Class of any Series of Outstanding Investor Notes rated or evaluated
by such Rating Agency or the rating or credit risk assessment of any series
of Preferred Membership Interests rated or evaluated by such Rating Agency.

Receivable Purchase Agreement  means the Receivable Purchase
Agreement, dated as of the Initial Closing Date, by and between SPV and VMS,
as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its
terms.

Receivable Purchase Termination Event  is defined in the
Receivable Purchase Agreement.

-34- 

Record Date  means, with respect to each Series of Notes, the
dates specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Recoveries  means any amounts received by the Servicer with
respect to Charged-Off Leases, including Collections received from Obligors
and liquidation proceeds of the related Leased Vehicles, net of (i) any
applicable rental receipts tax, sales and use tax, personal property tax, ad
valorem tax or any other tax or any governmental fees or charges, (ii) any
and all out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Servicer in
connection with such recovery and (iii) any amounts remitted to the related
Obligor as required by applicable law or the related Lease.

Register  means the register mentioned in Section 11.3 of the LLC
Agreement.

Registered Notes  is defined in Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture.

Rejected Paid-In Advance Vehicles  means, for any Monthly Period,
all Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles which were sold or otherwise disposed of
after rejection thereof by the related Obligor during such Monthly Period.

Related Rights  means, with respect to any Unit, all Origination
Trust Assets to the extent such assets are associated with such Unit.

Repurchase Amount  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Required Aggregate Asset Amount  means the sum of the Required
Asset Amounts with respect to all Series of Outstanding Investor Notes.

Required Asset Amount  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Required Overcollateralization Amount  means, with respect to any
Series of Investor Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture
Supplement.

Required Rating  means a short-term certificate of deposit rating
from Moody s of P-1 and from Standard   Poor s of  A-1  and a long-term
unsecured debt rating of not less than Aa3 by Moody s and  AA-  by Standard  
Poor s.

Requirements of Law  means, with respect to any Person or any of
its property, the certificate of incorporation or articles of association and
by-laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person or any
of its property, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation, or determination of
any arbitrator or Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or

-35- 

binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or
any of its property is subject, whether Federal, state or local (including,
without limitation, usury laws, the Federal Truth in Lending Act and retail
installment sales acts).

Residual Value Loss  means, for any Unit Vehicle which became a
Residual Value Vehicle during a Monthly Period, an amount equal to (a) the
Stated Residual Value of such Unit Vehicle minus (b) all Termination Proceeds
with respect to such Unit Vehicle for such Monthly Period.

Residual Value Loss Ratio  means, for any specified Settlement
Date, the quotient, expressed as a percentage, of (a) the sum of the Residual
Value Losses for all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles during
the preceding Monthly Period minus all Termination Proceeds included in
clauses (i) and (ii) of the definition thereof for the preceding Monthly
Period for all Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles during prior
Monthly Periods divided by (b) the sum of the Stated Residual Values for all
Unit Vehicles that became Residual Value Vehicles during the preceding
Monthly Period.

Residual Value Vehicles  means, for any Monthly Period, all Unit
Vehicles subject to Closed-End Leases (other than Unit Vehicles subject to
Charged-off Leases) which were sold or otherwise disposed of after
termination or expiration of the related Closed-End Lease during such Monthly
Period.

Responsible Officer  means, with respect to the Indenture Trustee,
any officer within the Corporate Trust Office, including any Assistant Vice
President, Vice President, any Secretary or Assistant Secretary or any other
officer of the Indenture Trustee customarily performing functions similar to
those performed by any Person who at the time shall be an above-designated
officer and having direct responsibility for administration of the Indenture
and the applicable Series Supplement and also any particular officer to whom
any corporate trust matter is referred because of such officer s knowledge of
and familiarity with the particular subject.

Revised Article 8  means Revised Article 8 (1994 Version) (and
corresponding amendments to Article 9) as promulgated by the National
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws.

Revolving Period  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes, the period specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

S P  or  Standard   Poor s  means Standard   Poor s Ratings
Service, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.

Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

-36- 

Securities Intermediary  means a  securities intermediary  within
the meaning of Section 8-102(a)(14) of Revised Article 8.

Securitization  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

Security Entitlement  means a  security entitlement  within the
meaning of Section 8-102(a)(17) of Revised Article 8.

Senior Preferred Member  means a Person in whose name a Senior
Preferred Membership Interest is registered in the Register.

Senior Preferred Membership Interests  means the Senior Preferred
Membership Interests issued pursuant to the LLC Agreement.

Series  means any Series of Investor Notes, which may include
within any such Series a Class or Classes of Investor Notes subordinate to
another such Class or Classes of Investor Notes.

Series Gain on Sale Account Percentage  means, with respect to any
Series of Investor Notes, the percentage specified in the related Indenture
Supplement.

Series Account  means any account or accounts established pursuant
to an Indenture Supplement for the benefit of a Series of Notes.

Series Administrator Fee,  with respect to any Series of Notes,
that portion of the Administrator Fee payable from Collections allocable to
such Series pursuant to the related Indenture Supplement.

Series Closing Date  means, with respect to any Series of Investor
Notes, the date of issuance of such Series of Investor Notes, as specified in
the related Indenture Supplement.

Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement  means the Series 1999-1
Servicing Supplement to the Origination Trust Servicing Agreement, dated as
of the Initial Closing Date, between the Origination Trust, Wilmington Trust
Company, as SUBI Trustee, SPV and the Servicer, as amended from time to time.

Series Note Termination Date  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the date stated in the related Indenture Supplement.

Series Servicing Fee,  with respect to any Series of Notes, that
portion of the Servicing Fee payable from Collections allocable to such
Series pursuant to the related Indenture Supplement.

-37- 

Series Servicing Fee Percentage  means, with respect to any Series
of Notes, the amount specified in the related Indenture Supplement.

Series Termination Date  means, with respect to any Series of
Investor Notes, the date stated in the related Indenture Supplement as the
termination date.

Servicer  means VMS in its capacity as servicer under the
Origination Trust Servicing Agreement.

Servicer Termination Event  is defined in the Origination Trust
Servicing Agreement.

Servicing Fee  is defined in the Origination Trust Servicing
Agreement.

Settlement Date  means the 7th day of each month, or if such date
is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, commencing August 9,
1999.

Settlement Statement  is defined in Section 4.1 of the Base
Indenture.

Sold Units  means, collectively, the Initial Units and the
Additional Units.

Special Purpose Entity  is defined in the Origination Trust
Agreement.

SPV  means Raven Funding LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company.

Stated Residual Value  means, for any Unit Vehicle subject to a
Closed-End Lease, the lesser of (a) the stated residual value of such Unit
Vehicle established at the time of origination of such Closed-End Lease in
accordance with the Policies and (b) the Net Book Value of such Unit Vehicle
as of such day.

SUBI Assets  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

SUBIs  means the Fleet Receivable SUBI and the Lease SUBI.

SUBI Certificates  means the Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate and
the Lease SUBI Certificate.

SUBI Portfolio  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

-38- 

Subsidiary  means, with respect to any Person (herein referred to
as the  parent ), any corporation, partnership, association or other business
entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more
than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or more
than 50% of the general partnership interests are, at the time any
determination is being made, owned, controlled or held by the parent or (b)
that is, at the time any determination is being made, otherwise controlled,
by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and
one or more subsidiaries of the parent.

Tax Opinion  means an opinion of counsel to be delivered in
connection with the issuance of a new Series of Investor Notes to the effect
that, for United States federal income tax purposes, (i) the issuance of such
new Series of Notes will not affect adversely the United States federal
income tax characterization of any Series of Outstanding Notes or Class
thereof that was (based upon an opinion of counsel) characterized as debt at
the time of their issuance and (ii) the Issuer will not be classified as an
association or as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for
United States federal income tax purposes.

Termination Event  means any of a Receivable Purchase Termination
Event or a Transfer Termination Event.

Termination Proceeds  means for any Residual Value Vehicle for any
Monthly Period (a) all amounts received by the Servicer during such Monthly
Period upon, after or in connection with the termination of the related Lease
including, without limitation, (i) sales proceeds with respect to such
Residual Value Vehicle, net of any and all out-of-pocket costs and expenses
incurred by the Servicer in connection with such sale or other disposition
and any amounts remitted to the related Obligor as required by applicable law
or the related Lease and (ii) any and all insurance proceeds received in
connection with the occurrence of a casualty event in respect of such
Residual Value Vehicle and (b) any and all amounts billed to the related
Obligor in connection with the termination of such Lease, including any
Incidental Lease Termination Payments.

Three Month Average Charge-Off Ratio  means, with respect to any
Settlement Date, the average of the Charge-Off Ratios for such Settlement
Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio  means, with respect to any
Settlement Date, the average of the Delinquency Ratios for such Settlement
Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

Three Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio  means, with
respect to any Settlement Date, the average of the Paid-In Advance Loss

-39- 

Ratios for such Settlement Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement
Dates.

Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio  means, with respect
to any Settlement Date, the average of the Residual Value Loss Ratios for
such Settlement Date and the two immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

TIA  means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force on the date
hereof, unless otherwise specifically provided.

Transaction Documents  means, collectively, the Indenture, the
Investor Notes, any agreements relating to the issuance or the purchase of
any of the Investor Notes, any agreements relating to any Credit Enhancement
for any Investor Notes, the LLC Agreement, the Transfer Agreement, the
Administration Agreement, the Management Agreement and the Origination Trust
Documents.

Transfer Agent and Registrar  is defined in Section 2.4 of the
Base Indenture.

Transfer Agreement  means the Transfer Agreement, dated as of the
Initial Closing Date, as amended as of October 28, 1999, between SPV and the
Issuer, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance
with its terms.

Transfer Date  means, unless otherwise specified in the related
Indenture Supplement, with respect to any Series of Notes, the Business Day
immediately prior to each Payment Date.

Transferred Asset Payment  is defined in Section 2.3 of the
Transfer Agreement.

Transferred Assets  is defined in the Transfer Agreement.

Transfer Termination Event  is defined in the Transfer Agreement.

Twelve Month Average Charge-Off Ratio  means, with respect to any
Settlement Date, the average of the Charge-Off Ratios for such Settlement
Date and the eleven immediately preceding Settlement Dates.

Twelve Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio  means, with
respect to any Settlement Date, the average of the Paid-In Advance Loss
Ratios for such Settlement Date and the eleven immediately preceding
Settlement Dates.

Twelve Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio  means, with
respect to any Settlement Date, the average of the Residual Value Loss Ratios

-40- 

for such Settlement Date and the eleven immediately preceding Settlement
Dates.

UCC  means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to
time in the applicable jurisdiction.

Uncertificated Security  means an  uncertificated security  within
the meaning of the applicable UCC.

Unit  means a Vehicle, the related Lease and the Related Rights
associated therewith or a Paid-In Advance Vehicle and the Related Rights
associated therewith.

Unit Leases  means the Leases allocated to the Lease SUBI
Portfolio.

Unit Paid-In Advance Vehicles  means the Paid-In Advance Vehicles
allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio.

Unit Repurchase Payments  means, for any Settlement Date, the sum
of (a) the aggregate amount payable by the Servicer pursuant to Section 7.15
of the Series 1999-1 SUBI Servicing Supplement on such Settlement Date and
(b) the aggregate amount payable by SPV pursuant to Section 7.4 of the
Transfer Agreement on such Settlement Date.

Unit Vehicle  means the Leased Vehicles and Paid-In Advance
Vehicles allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio.

United States Security Entitlement  means a  Security Entitlement 
as defined in 31 C.F.R. Section 357.2, 24 C.F.R. Section 1.2, 12 C.F.R.
Section 912.1, 12 C.F.R. Section 1511.1, 12 C.F.R. Section 615.5450 or 31
C.F.R. Section 354.1.

United States  or  U.S.  means the United States of America, its
fifty States and the District of Columbia.

U.S. Government Obligations  means direct obligations of the
United States of America, or any agency or instrumentality thereof for the
payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is
pledged as to full and timely payment of such obligations.

UTI  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

UTI Assets  is defined in the Origination Trust Agreement.

Vehicle  means an automobile, a truck, a truck chassis, a truck
body, a truck tractor, a truck trailer or another type of motorized vehicle

-41- 

or equipment, together with any and all accessories, additions and parts from
time to time in or to any of the foregoing and all accessions thereto.

VMS  means PHH Vehicle Management Services LLC or any predecessor
in interest thereto (including, without limitation, PHH Fleet America
Corporation and Peterson, Howell   Heather, Inc.).

written  or  in writing  means any form of written communication,
including, without limitation, by means of telex, telecopier device,
telegraph or cable.

-42- 

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 7
 y26027exv10w3.htm
 EX-10.3: SERIES 1999-3 INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT

EX-10.3 

Exhibit 10.3 

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, 
as Issuer

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC, 
as Administrator

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as Administrative Agent,

CERTAIN CP CONDUIT PURCHASERS,

CERTAIN APA BANKS,

CERTAIN FUNDING AGENTS

and

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as Indenture Trustee

SERIES 1999-3 INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT

dated as of October 28, 1999

to 
BASE INDENTURE

dated as of June 30, 1999

***  
       
     INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

Page 

SCHEDULES

Schedule I:

List of Match Funding CP Conduit Purchasers 

EXHIBITS

Exhibit A

Form of Series 1999-3 Variable Funding Investor Note 

Exhibit B

Increase Notice 

Exhibit C

Monthly Settlement Statement 

Exhibit D

UCC Certificate 

Exhibit E

Form of Transferee Supplement 

Exhibit F

Form of Purchaser Supplement 

(v) 

SERIES 1999-3 SUPPLEMENT, dated as of October 28, 1999 (as amended, supplemented,
restated or otherwise modified from time to time, this   Indenture Supplement  ) among
GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, a special purpose limited liability company established under the laws of
Delaware (the   Issuer  ), PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC (  VMS  ), as
administrator (in such capacity, the   Administrator  ), the several commercial paper
conduits listed on Schedule I and their respective permitted successors and assigns (the   CP
Conduit Purchasers   each, individually, a   CP Conduit Purchaser  ), the several banks
set forth opposite the name of each CP Conduit Purchaser on Schedule I and the other banks parties
hereto pursuant to  Section 11.10(c)  (collectively, the   APA Bank   with respect to
such CP
Conduit Purchaser), the agent bank set forth opposite the name of each CP Conduit Purchaser on
Schedule I and its permitted successor and assign (the   Funding Agent   with respect to such
CP Conduit Purchaser), Chase, in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit
Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents (the   Administrative Agent  ), and Chase,
in its capacity
as Indenture Trustee (together with its successors in trust thereunder as provided in the Base
Indenture referred to below, the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of
June 30, 1999, between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee (as amended, modified, restated or
supplemented from time to time, exclusive of Indenture Supplements creating new Series of Investor
Notes, the   Base Indenture  ).

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT 

WHEREAS,  Sections 2.2  and  12.1  of the Base Indenture provide, among other
things, that the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee may at any time and from time to time enter into
an Indenture Supplement to the Base Indenture for the purpose of authorizing the issuance of one or
more Series of Investor Notes.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:

DESIGNATION 

There is hereby created a Series of Investor Notes to be issued pursuant to the
Base Indenture and this Indenture Supplement and such Series of Investor Notes shall be designated
generally as Floating Rate Asset Backed Variable Funding Investor Notes, Series 
1999-3.

The proceeds from the sale of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes (as defined herein) and the
proceeds from any Increase (as defined herein) shall be deposited in the Series 1999-3 Collection
Subaccount and shall be used by the Issuer to fund the maintenance of the SUBI Certificates under
the Transfer Agreement and to reduce the Invested Amounts of other Series of Investor Notes.

ARTICLE 1

DEFINITIONS

(a) All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein are defined in the Definitions
List attached to the Base Indenture as  Schedule 1  thereto. All Article, Section or

2 
 Subsection references herein shall refer to Articles, Sections or Subsections of the Base
Indenture, except as otherwise provided herein. Unless otherwise stated herein, as the context
otherwise requires or if such term is otherwise defined in the Base Indenture, each capitalized
term used or defined herein shall relate only to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes and not to any
other Series of Investor Notes issued by the Issuer.

(b) The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings with respect to
the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes and the definitions of such terms are applicable to the singular
as well as the plural form of such terms and to the masculine as well as the feminine and neuter
genders of such terms:

Acquiring APA Bank   is defined in  Section 11.10(c ).

Acquiring Purchaser   is defined in  Section 11.10(e) .

Additional Costs Cap   means, for any Payment Date, an amount equal to the
quotient of the product of (a) 0.25% per annum, (b) the weighted average Series 1999-3

Invested Amount during the immediately preceding Series 1999-3 Interest Period and (c) 
the number of days in such Series 1999-3 Interest Period divided by 360.

Additional Interest   is defined in  Section 5A.3(b) .

Adjusted LIBO Rate   means, with respect to each day during each Eurodollar
Period pertaining to a portion of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to any
Purchaser allocated to a Eurodollar Tranche, an interest rate per annum (rounded

upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/16th of 1%) equal to the LIBO Rate for such
Eurodollar Period multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate.

Administrative Agent   is defined in the recitals hereto.

Affected Party   means any CP Conduit Purchaser and any Program
Support Provider with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser.

Aggregate Commitment Amount   means, on any date of determination, the sum
of the Commitment Amounts with respect to each of the Purchasers on such date.

Alternate Base Rate   means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the
greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day  and  (b) the Federal Funds
Effective Rate in effect on such day  plus    1  / 2  of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate
due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective
from and including the effective day of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds
Effective Rate, respectively.

Amortization Event   is defined in  Article 4 .

APA Bank  is defined in the  recitals  hereto.

3 

APA Bank Funded Amount   means, with respect to any Purchaser for any day, the
excess, if any, of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser over the CP
Conduit Funded Amount for such day.

Applicable Margin   means on any date of determination, .50% per annum;
provided, however that after the occurrence of an Amortization Event or a Potential
Amortization Event, the Applicable Margin shall equal 1.00% per annum.

Article 7 Costs   means any amounts due pursuant to Article 7.

Asset Purchase Agreement   means, with respect to any CP Conduit Purchaser,
the asset purchase agreement, liquidity agreement or other agreement among such CP Conduit
Purchaser, the Funding Agent with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank
with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, as amended, modified or supplemented from time
to time.

Assumed Lease Term   means, with respect to any Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall
Lease, the number of months over which the Capitalized Cost of the related Leased Vehicle
is being depreciated thereunder.

Available APA Bank Funding Amount   means, with respect to any Purchaser for
any Business Day, the sum of (i) the portion of the APA Bank Funded Amount with respect to
such Purchaser not allocated to a Eurodollar Tranche on such Business Day,

(ii) the portion of the APA Bank Funded Amount with respect to such Purchaser
allocated to any Eurodollar Tranche the Eurodollar Period in respect of which expires on
such Business Day and (iii) the portion of such Purchaser s Purchaser Increase Amount
for such Business Day not to be funded by such Purchaser by issuing Commercial Paper.

Available CP Funding Amount   means, with respect to any Purchaser for any
Business Day, the sum of (i) the portion of the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect

to such Purchaser allocated to any CP Tranche, the CP Rate Period in respect of which
expires on such Business Day and (ii) the portion of such Purchaser s Purchaser Increase
Amount for such Business Day to be funded by such Purchaser by issuing Commercial Paper.

Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any
successor thereto.

Change in Law   means (a) any law, rule or regulation or any change therein or
in the interpretation or application thereof (whether or not having the force of law), in
each case, adopted, issued or occurring after the Series 1999-3 Closing Date or (b) any
request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any
government or political subdivision or agency, authority, bureau, central bank, commission,
department

or instrumentality thereof, or any court, tribunal, grand jury or arbitrator, in each case,
whether foreign or domestic (each an   Official Body  ) charged with the
administration, interpretation or application thereof, or the compliance with any request
or directive of
any Official Body (whether or not having the force of law) made, issued or occurring
after the Series 1999-3 Closing Date.

4 

Commercial Paper   means, with respect to any CP Conduit Purchaser, the
promissory notes issued by, or for the benefit of, such CP Conduit Purchaser in the
commercial paper market.

Commitment   means, with respect to any Purchaser, the obligation of such
Purchaser to purchase a Series 1999-3 Investor Note on the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding
Date and, thereafter, to maintain and, subject to certain conditions, increase the
Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser, in each case, in an amount up to
the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser.

Commitment Amoun t  means, with respect to any Purchaser, an amount equal to
102% of the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser.

Commitment Fee   is defined in  Section 2.7(e) .

Commitment Fee Payment   is defined in  Section 5A.4(c)(vi) .

Commitment Fee Rate   means 0.20% per annum.

Commitment Percentage   means, on any date of determination, with respect to
any Purchaser, the ratio, expressed as a percentage, which such Purchaser s Maximum
Purchaser Invested Amount bears to the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on such date.

Conduit Assignee   means, with respect to any CP Conduit Purchaser, any
commercial paper conduit administered by the Funding Agent with respect to such CP Conduit
Purchaser and designated by such Funding Agent to accept an assignment from such CP Conduit
Purchaser of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser
pursuant to  Section 11.10(b) .

CP Conduit Funded Amount   means, with respect to any Purchaser for any day,
the portion of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser funded by such
Purchaser by issuing Commercial Paper on such day.

CP Conduit Purchaser   is defined in the recitals hereto.

CP Rate Period   means, with respect to any CP Tranche, a period of days not
to exceed 270 days commencing on a Business Day selected in accordance with  Section
2.7(b) ;  provided  that (x) if a CP Rate Period would end on a day that is not a
Business Day, such CP Rate Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day and (y)
during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, each CP Rate Period shall end on or prior to
the next succeeding Payment Date.

CP Tranche   means, with respect to a Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, a
portion of the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such Match Funding CP Conduit
Purchaser for which the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to such Match Funding CP Conduit
Purchaser is calculated by reference to a particular Discount and a particular CP Rate
Period.

5 

Daily Principal Utilization Amount   means, for any Business Day, the sum of
the following amounts to be withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection
Subaccount pursuant to Section 5A.2(g) on such Business Day: (i) the amount of any Decrease
to be applied to reduce the Series 1999-3 Invested Amount pursuant to  Section 2.5 ,
(ii) the amount that the Issuer has elected to apply to reduce the principal amount of any
Outstanding Series of Investor Notes (other than the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes) 
and (iii) the portion of the purchase price for Additional Units to be allocated to the
Lease SUBI Portfolio and paid for pursuant to the Transfer Agreement on such Business Day
to be financed with the proceeds of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes.

Decrease   is defined in  Section 2.5(a) .

Deficiency   is defined in Section 5A.4(b).

Discount   means, (a) with respect to any Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser,
the interest or discount component of the Commercial Paper issued by such Match
Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, including the portion thereof constituting dealer or
placement agent commissions, to fund the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such
Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser and (b) with respect to any Pooled Funding
CP Conduit Purchaser, the amount of interest to accrue on or in respect of the
Commercial Paper issued by such Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser allocated, in whole or
in part, by the Funding Agent with respect to such Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, to
fund the purchase or maintenance of the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such
Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser (including, without limitation, any interest
attributable to the commissions of placement agents and dealers in respect of
such Commercial Paper and any costs associated with funding small or odd-lot amounts,
to the extent that such commissions or costs are allocated, in whole or in part, to such
Commercial Paper by such Funding Agent).

Dividend Amount   means, with respect to any Payment Date, the aggregate
amount of dividends payable to the Series 1999-3 Preferred Members in respect of their
Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests pursuant to the LLC Agreement.

Effective Date   is defined in  Section 9.1 .

Eligible Assignee   means a financial institution having short-term debt
ratings of at least A-l from Standard   Poor s and P-l from Moody s.

Eurodollar Period   means, with respect to any Eurodollar Tranche and any
Purchaser:

(a) initially, the period commencing on the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding
Date, the Increase Date or a conversion date, as the case may be, with respect to such
Eurodollar Tranche and ending one month thereafter (or such other period which is
acceptable to the Funding Agent with respect to such Purchaser and which in no event 
will be less than 7 days); and

6 

(b) thereafter, each period commencing on the last day of the immediately
preceding Eurodollar Period applicable to such Eurodollar Tranche and ending one
month thereafter (or such other period which is acceptable to the Funding Agent with
respect to such Purchaser and which in no event will be less than 7 days);

provided  that all Eurodollar Periods must end on the next Payment Date and all of
the foregoing provisions relating to Eurodollar Periods are subject to the
following:

(1) if any Eurodollar Period would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business
Day, such Eurodollar Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day
unless the result of such extension would be to carry such Eurodollar Period into
another calendar month, in which event such Eurodollar Period shall end on the
immediately preceding Business Day; and

(2) any Eurodollar Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar
month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the
calendar month at the end of such Eurodollar Period) shall end on the last Business
Day of the calendar month at the end of such Eurodollar Period.

Eurodollar Tranche   means, with respect to any Purchaser, a portion of the
APA Bank Funded Amount with respect to such Purchaser allocated to a particular Eurodollar
Period and an Adjusted LIBO Rate determined by reference thereto.

Excluded Taxes   means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any CP
Conduit Purchaser, any APA Bank, any Funding Agent, any Program Support Provider
or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of
the Issuer hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net
income by the United States of America or by any other Governmental Authority, in each
case, as a result of a present or former connection between the United States of America
or the jurisdiction of such Governmental Authority imposing such tax, as the case may
be, and the Administrative Agent, such CP Conduit Purchaser, such APA Bank, such Funding
Agent, such Program Support Provider or any other such recipient (except a connection
arising solely from the Administrative Agent s, such CP Conduit Purchaser s, such APA
Bank s, such Program Support Provider s or such recipient s having executed, delivered or
performed its obligations hereunder, receiving a payment hereunder or enforcing the Series
1999-3 Investor Notes) and (b) any branch profits tax imposed by the United States of
America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which
the Issuer is located (except any such branch profits or similar tax imposed as a result of
a connection with the United States of America or other jurisdiction as a result of a
connection arising solely from the Administrative Agent s, such CP Conduit Purchaser s,
such APA Bank s, such Program Support Provider s or such recipient s having executed,
delivered or performed its obligations hereunder, receiving a payment hereunder or
enforcing the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes).

7 

Expiry Date   means, with respect to any Purchaser, the earlier of (a) the
Scheduled Expiry Date with respect to such Purchaser and (b) the date on which an
Amortization Event shall have been declared or automatically occurred.

Extending Purchaser   shall mean a Purchaser other than a Non-Extending
Purchaser.

Federal Funds Effective Rate   means, for any day, the weighted average
(rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight
Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal
funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the
average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of
the quotations for such day of such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from
three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.

Final Maturity Date   means the Payment Date that occurs in the 125th month
after the month in which the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period shall have commenced.

Floating Tranche   means, with respect to any Purchaser, the portion of the
APA Bank Funded Amount with respect to such Purchaser not allocated to a Eurodollar
Tranche.

Funding Agent   is defined in the recitals hereto.

Increase Amount   is defined in  Section 2.3(a) .

Increase Date   is defined in  Section 2.3(a) .

Increased Costs   means, for each Payment Date, the sum of (1) any Article 7
Costs due and payable on such Payment Date, (2) any other unpaid Program Costs due and
payable on such Payment Date, (3) any amounts due and payable pursuant to  Section
2.8  on such Payment Date and (4) the Increased Costs Carry Forward Amount for the
preceding Payment Date.

Increased Costs Carry Forward Amount   means, for each Payment Date, the
excess, if any, of (a) Increased Costs for such Payment Date over (b) the aggregate
amount deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account on account of the Increased
Costs for such Payment Date pursuant to  Sections 5A.4(c)(i x) and  (xv) .

Increases   is defined in  Section 2.3(a) .

Indemnified Taxes   means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.

Indenture Supplement   has the meaning set forth in the preamble.

Interest Shortfall   is defined in  Section 5A.3(b) .

8 

Lease Rate Cap Costs   means, for each Payment Date, any amounts owed by the
Issuer to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders pursuant to  Section 5A.12(e)  on
such Payment Date.

Lease Rate Cap Event   means the failure on the part of the Issuer to have the
Lease Rate Caps that it is required to have in accordance with  Section 5A.12 .

LIBO Rate   means, with respect to each day during each Eurodollar Period
pertaining to a Eurodollar Tranche, the rate appearing on Page 3750 of the Dow Jones market
screen (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, providing rate quotations
comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the
Administrative Agent from time to time in accordance with its customary practices for
purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the
London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second Business
Day prior to the commencement of such Eurodollar Period, as the rate for dollar deposits
with a maturity comparable to the Eurodollar Period applicable to such Eurodollar Tranche.

Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser   means each CP Conduit Purchaser that is
identified on Schedule I as a Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser and each CP Conduit
Purchaser that, after the Series 1999-3 Closing Date, notifies the Issuer and the
Administrative Agent in accordance with  Section 2.7(d)  in writing that it is
funding its
CP Conduit Funded Amount with Commercial Paper issued by it, or for its benefit, in
specified CP Tranches selected in accordance with  Sections 2.7(b)  and (c) and that,
in
each case, has not subsequently notified the Issuer and the Administrative Agent in
writing that the Issuer will no longer be permitted to select CP Tranches in accordance
with  Sections 2.7(b)  and (c) in respect of the CP Conduit Funded Amount with
respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser.

Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount   means, with respect to any Purchaser,
the amount set forth opposite such Purchaser s name on Schedule I, as such amount may 
be increased or reduced from  time  to time as provided in Se ction 2.6 . The
Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to each Non-Extending Purchaser shall be
reduced to zero on the Scheduled Expiry Date with respect to such Purchaser.

Monthly Funding Costs   means, with respect to each Series 1999-3 Interest
Period and any Purchaser, the sum of:

(a) for each day during such Series 1999-3 Interest Period, (i) with respect to
a Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, the aggregate amount of            Discount            accruing
on
all outstanding Commercial Paper issued by, or for the benefit of, such Match Funding
CP Conduit Purchaser to fund the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such
Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser on such day or (ii) with respect to a Pooled
Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, the aggregate amount of Discount accruing on or otherwise in
respect of the Commercial Paper issued by, or for the benefit of, such Pooled Funding CP
Conduit Purchaser allocated, in whole or in part, by the Funding Agent with respect to such
Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, to fund the purchase or

9 

maintenance of the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such Pooled Funding CP Conduit
Purchaser;  plus 

(b) for each day during such Series 1999-3 Interest Period, the sum of:

(i) the product of (A) the portion of the APA Bank Funded Amount with
respect to such Purchaser allocated to the Floating Tranche with respect to such
Purchaser on such day  times  (B) the Alternate Base Rate,  divided  by (C) 365 (or
366, as the case may be)  plus 

(ii) the product of (A) the portion of the APA Bank Funded Amount with
respect to such Purchaser allocated to Eurodollar Tranches with respect to such
Purchaser on such day  times  (B) the weighted average Adjusted LIBO Rate with
respect to such Eurodollar Tranches  plus  the Applicable Margin on such day in
effect with respect thereto  divided  by (C) 360;  plus 

(c) for each day during such Series 1999-3 Interest Period, the product of (A)
the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such Purchaser on such day  times  (B)
0.35% per annum,  divided  by (C) 360.

Monthly Interest Payment   is defined in  Section 5A.4(c)(v) .

Monthly Principal Payment   is defined in  Section 5A.6 .

Non-Extending Purchaser   means any Purchaser who shall not have agreed to an
extension of its Scheduled Expiry Date pursuant to  Section 2.6(b) .

Optional Termination Date   is defined in  Section 2.5(b) .

Optional Termination Notice   is defined in  Section 2.5(b) .

Other Taxes   means any and all current or future stamp or documentary taxes
or other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made
under the Transaction Documents or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or
otherwise with respect to, any Transaction Document.

Outstanding   means, with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the
Series 1999-3 Invested Amount shall not have been reduced to zero and all accrued interest
and other amounts owing on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes and to the Administrative
Agent, the Funding Agents, the CP Conduit Purchasers and the APA Banks hereunder shall not
have been paid in full.

Participants   is defined in  Section 11.10(d) .

Paydown Period   means any period from and including the Expiry Date with
respect to any Purchaser to but excluding the earlier of (a) the date on which the
Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser shall have been reduced to 
zero and (b) the commencement of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period.

10 

Payment Date   means the 7th day of each month, or if such date is not a
Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, commencing December 7, 1999.

Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser   means each CP Conduit Purchaser that
is not a Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser.

Prepayment Date   is defined in  Article 5 .

Prime Rate   means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time
to time by Chase as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each
change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is
publicly announced as being effective.

Principal Overpayment Amount   means, for each Settlement Date, the excess, if
any, of (a) the aggregate amount withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 General Collection
Subaccount and deposited in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount pursuant to
 Section 5A.2(f)  during the immediately preceding Monthly Period over (b) the Series
1999-3 Principal Payment Amount for such Settlement Date.

Program Costs   shall mean the sum of (i) all expenses, indemnities and other
amounts due and payable to the Administrative Agent, the CP Conduit Purchasers, the Funding
Agents, the Program Support Providers and the APA Banks under the Indenture or this
Indenture Supplement (including, without limitation, any Article 7 Costs) and (ii) the
product of (A) all unpaid fees and expenses due and payable to counsel to, and independent
auditors of, the Issuer (other than fees and expenses payable on or in connection with the
closing of the issuance of Series 1999-3 or any other Series) and (B) a fraction, the
numerator of which is the Aggregate Commitment Amount and the denominator of which is the
sum of (x) the aggregate commitment amounts on such Business Day (in respect of any
variable funding notes of any other Outstanding Series), (y) the Aggregate Commitment
Amount  plus  (z) the aggregate Invested Amounts of all other Outstanding Series (other than
variable funding notes).

Program Support Provider   means, with respect to any CP Conduit Purchaser,
the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser and any other or additional Person
now or hereafter extending credit, or having a commitment to extend credit to or for the
account of, or to make purchases from, such CP Conduit Purchaser or issuing a letter of
credit, surety bond or other instrument to support any obligations arising under
or in connection with such CP Conduit Purchaser s securitization program.

Pro Rata Share   means, with respect to any Purchaser, on any date, the ratio,
expressed as a percentage, which the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such
Purchaser bears to the Series 1999-3 Invested Amount on such date.

Purchaser   means a CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank with respect to such
CP Conduit Purchaser.

11 

Purchaser Increase Amount   means, with respect to any Purchaser, for any
Business Day, such Purchaser s Commitment Percentage of the Increase Amount, if any, on
such Business Day.

Purchaser Invested Amount   means, with respect to any Purchaser, (a) when
used with respect to the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date, such Purchaser s
Commitment Percentage of the Series 1999-3 Initial Invested Amount and (b) when used with
respect to any other date, an amount equal to (i) the Purchaser Invested Amount with
respect to such Purchaser on the immediately preceding Business Day  plus  (ii) such
Purchaser s Commitment Percentage of any Increase Amount made pursuant to  Section 
 2.3  on such day  minus  (iii) the amount of principal payments made to such Purchaser
pursuant to  Section 5A.7  on such date.

Purchaser Supplement   is defined in  Section 11.10( e).

Rating Agencies   means, with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes,
Standard   Poor s and Moody s.

Rating Agency Condition   means, with respect to any action specified herein
as requiring satisfaction of the Rating Agency Condition, that each Rating Agency shall
have been given 10 days  (or such shorter period as shall be acceptable to each Rating
Agency) prior notice thereof and that each of the Rating Agencies shall have notified the
Administrative Agent, each CP Conduit Purchaser and the Funding Agent with respect to such
CP Conduit Purchaser in writing that such action will not result in a reduction or
withdrawal of the then current credit assessment of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes.

Record Date   means, with respect to each Payment Date, the immediately
preceding Business Day.

Scheduled Expiry Date   shall mean, with respect to any Purchaser, the later
of (a) the Payment Date in October 2000 and (b) the last day of any extension of such
Purchaser s Commitment made in accordance with  Section 2.6(b) .

Series 1999-3   means Series 1999-3, the Principal Terms of which are set
forth in this Indenture Supplement.

Series 1999-3 Administrator Fee   is defined in  Section 6.2 .

Series 1999-3 Allocated Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance   means, as of any
date of determination, the product of (a) the Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance and (b) the
percentage equivalent of a fraction the numerator of which Is the Series 1999-3 Required
Asset Amount as of such date and the denominator of which is the sum of (x) the Series
1999-3 Required Asset Amount and (y) the aggregate Required Asset Amounts with respect to
each other Series of Investor Notes as of such date, including all Series of Investor Notes
that have been paid in full but as to which the Amortization Period shall have not ended.

12 

Series 1999-3 Allocated Aggregate Unit Balance   means, as of any date of
determination, the product of (x) the Aggregate Unit Balance and (y) the percentage
equivalent of a fraction the numerator of which is the Series 1999-3 Required Asset Amount
as of such date and the denominator of which is the sum of (x) the Series 1999-3 Required
Asset Amount and (y) the aggregate Required Asset Amounts with respect to each other Series
of Investor Notes as of such date, including all Series of Investor Notes that have been
paid in full but as to which the Amortization Period shall have not ended.

Series 1999-3 Allocated Asset Amount Deficiency   means, as of any date of
determination, the amount, if any, by which the Series 1999-3 Allocated Adjusted Aggregate
Unit Balance is less than the Series 1999-3 Required Asset Amount as of such date.

Series 1999-3 Amortization Period   means the period commencing on the
Business Day following the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which the Expiry Date with
respect to each Purchaser shall have occurred, (ii) the Optional Termination Date and (iii)
the Prepayment Date and ending on the date when (w) the Series 1999-3 Invested

Amount shall have been reduced to zero and all accrued interest and other amounts owing on
the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes and to the Administrative Agent, the CP Conduit
Purchasers, the Funding Agents and the APA Banks shall have been paid in full, (x) all
dividends accrued and accumulated on the Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests shall
have been declared and paid in full, (y) the Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests
shall have been redeemed in accordance with their terms and (z) all amounts owing in
respect of the Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests under the Series 1999-3
Preferred Membership Interest Purchase Agreement shall have been paid in full 
by the Issuer.

Series 1999-3 Closing Date   means October 28, 1999.

Series 1999-3 Collateral   means the Collateral, the Series 1999-3 Reserve
Account, the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account, the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account
and the Series 1999-3 Lease Rate Caps.

Series 1999-3 Collection Subaccount   is defined in  Section 5A. 1(a) .

Series 1999- 3  Daily Principal Allocation   is defined in  Section
5A.2(b) .

Series 1999-3 Distribution Account   is defined in  Section 5A.11(a) .

Series 1999-3 Eligible Counterparty   means a financial institution having on
the date of any acquisition of a Lease Rate Cap short-term debt ratings of A-1  by Standard
  Poor s and P-l by Moody s and long-term unsecured debt ratings of at least AA- by
Standard   Poor s and Aa3 by Moody s.

Series 1999-3 Excess Fleet Receivable Amount   means, for any Settlement Date,
an amount equal to the product of (a) the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage
during the immediately preceding Monthly Period and (b) the Excess Fleet Receivable Amount
for such Settlement Date.

13 

Series 1999-3 Gain on Sale Account Percentage   means 10%.

Series 1999-3 Hypothetical Yield Shortfall Amount   means, for any Settlement
Date, an amount equal to the product of (x) the excess, if any, of the Series 1999-3
Minimum Yield Rate for such Settlement Date over the CP Rate as of the last day of the
immediately preceding Monthly Period, (y) the Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage on

such Settlement Date of the aggregate Lease Balance of all Floating Rate Leases as of the
last day of the immediately preceding Monthly Period and (z) 2.75.

Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date   is defined in  Section 2.1(a) .

Series 1999-3 Initial Invested Amount   is defined in  Section 2.3(a) .

Series 1999-3 Interest Period   means a period commencing on and including a
Payment Date and ending on and including the day preceding the next succeeding
Payment Date;  provided ,  however , that the initial Series 1999-3 Interest
Period shall commence on and include the Series 1999-3 Closing Date and end on and include
December 6, 1999.

Series 1999-3 Invested Amount   means, on any date of determination, the sum
of the Purchaser Invested Amounts with respect to each of the Purchasers on such date.

Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage   means, with respect to any Business Day
(i) during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, the percentage equivalent (which percentage
shall never exceed 100%) of a fraction the numerator of which shall be equal to the Series
1999-3 Allocated Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance as of the end of the immediately preceding
Business Day and the denominator of which is the sum of the numerators used to determine
invested percentages for allocations for all Series of Investor Notes (and all classes of
such Series of Investor Notes), including all Series of Investor Notes that have been paid
in full but as to which the Amortization Period shall have not ended, as of the end of such
immediately preceding Business Day or (ii) during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period,
the percentage equivalent (which percentage shall never exceed 100%) of a fraction the
numerator of which shall be equal to the Series 1999-3 Allocated Adjusted Aggregate Unit
Balance as of the end of the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period,
and the denominator of which is the sum of the numerators used to determine invested
percentages for allocations for all Series of Investor Notes (and all classes of such
Series of Investor Notes), including all Series of Investor Notes that have been paid in full but
as to which the Amortization Period shall have not ended, as of the end of the immediately
preceding Business Day.

Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder   means the Person in whose name a Series
1999-3 Investor Note is registered in the Note Register.

Series 1999-3 Investor Notes   means any one of the Series 1999-3 Floating
Rate Asset Backed Variable Funding Investor Notes, executed by the Issuer and authenticated
and delivered by the Indenture Trustee, substantially in the form of  Exhibit A .

14 

Series 1999-3 Junior Preferred Membership Interest s  means each series of
Junior Preferred Membership Interests relating to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, if 
any, issued by the Issuer pursuant to the LLC Agreement.

Series 1999-3 Liquid Credit Enhancement Deficiency   means, on any date of
determination, the amount by which the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount is less than
the Series 1999-3 Required Reserve Account Amount.

Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount   means, on any date of
determination, the sum of the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amounts with respect to 
each of the Purchasers on such date. The Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount shall be
reduced by the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount of each Non-Extending Purchaser on the
Scheduled Expiry Date with respect to such Purchaser.

Series 1999-3 Minimum Yield Rate   means, for any Settlement Date, a rate per
annum equal to the sum of (i) the Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Cost of Funds for
such Settlement Date, (ii) 0.225% and (iii) 0.60%.

Series 1999-3 Monthly Interest   is defined in  Section 5A.3(a) .

Series 1999-3 Monthly Residual Value Gain   means, for any Settlement Date, an
amount equal to the product of (a) the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage
during the immediately preceding Monthly Period and (b) the Monthly Residual Value Gain for
such Settlement Date.

Series 1999-3 Monthly Servicer Advance Reimbursement Amount   means, for each
Payment Date, an amount equal to the product of (a) the Monthly Servicer Advance
Reimbursement Amount for such Payment Date and (b) the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested
Percentage during the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Series 1999-3 Note Rate   means for any Series 1999-3 Interest Period, the
interest rate equal to the product of (a) the percentage equivalent of a fraction, the
numerator of which is equal to the sum of the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to
each Purchaser for such Series 1999-3 Interest Period and the denominator of which is equal
to the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Amount during such Series 1999-3 Interest
Period and (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is 360 and the denominator of which is
the number of days in such Series 1999-3 Interest Period;  provided, however , 
that the Series 1999-3 Note Rate will in no event be higher than the maximum rate permitted
by applicable law.

Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date   means the date on which the Series 1999-
3 Invested Amount shall have been reduced to zero and all accrued and unpaid interest on
the Series 1999-3 Notes shall have been paid in full.

Series 1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account   means the account
established in respect of the Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests pursuant to the
LLC Agreement.

15 

Series 1999-3 Preferred Members   means the registered holders of the Series
1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests.

Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interest Purchase Agreement   means,
collectively, one or more purchase agreements among the Issuer, one or more purchasers
of the Series 1999-3 Senior Preferred Membership Interests thereunder, the funding 
agents of such purchasers, one or more banks or other financial institutions providing
liquidity funding to such purchasers and the Administrator, as the same may from time to
time be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with its terms, and one
or more purchase agreements relating to the Series 1999-3 Junior Preferred Membership
Interests among the Issuer, one or more purchasers of the Series 1999-3 Junior Preferred
Membership Interests and the Administrator, as the same may from time to time be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with its terms.

Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests   means the Series 1999-3 Senior
Preferred Membership Interests and the Series 1999-3 Junior Preferred Membership Interests,
if any.

Series 1999-3 Prepayment Amount   means, the sum of the following amounts with
respect to each Purchaser:

(a) the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser,  plus 

(b) (i) if such Purchaser is a Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, the sum of (A)
all accrued and unpaid Discount on all outstanding Commercial Paper issued by, or for the
benefit of, such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser to fund the CP Funded Amount with
respect to such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser from the issuance date(s) thereof to but
excluding the Prepayment Date and (B) the aggregate Discount to accrue on all outstanding
Commercial Paper issued by, or for the benefit of, such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser
to fund the CP Funded Amount with respect to such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser from
and including the Prepayment Date to and excluding the maturity date of each CP Tranche
with respect to such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser or (ii) such Purchaser is a Pooled
Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, the sum of (A) the aggregate amount of Discount on or in
respect of the Commercial Paper issued by, or for the benefit of, such Pooled Funding CP
Conduit Purchaser allocated, in whole or in part, by the Funding Agent with respect to such
Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, to fund the purchase or maintenance of the CP Funded
Amount with respect to such Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser as of the Prepayment Date
and (B) the aggregate amount of Discount to accrue on or in respect of the Commercial Paper
issued by, or for the benefit of, such Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser allocated, in
whole or in part, by the Funding Agent with respect to such Pooled Funding CP Conduit
Purchaser, to fund the purchase or maintenance of the CP Funded Amount with respect to such
Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser from and including the Prepayment Date to and excluding
the maturity dates of such Commercial Paper;  plus 

(c ) all accrued and unpaid interest on the APA Bank Funded Amount with respect
to such Purchaser, calculated at the Alternate Base Rate or the applicable

16 

Adjusted LIBO Rate for the period from and including the immediately preceding Period End
Date to and excluding the Prepayment  Date, plus 

(d) the Commitment Fee payable to such Purchaser calculated for the period from and
including the immediately preceding Payment Date to and excluding the Prepayment Date,  plus 

(e) all Article 7 Costs then due and payable to such Purchaser,  plus 

(f) without duplication, any other Program Costs then due and payable to
such Purchaser and any amounts then due and payable to such Purchaser pursuant to
 Section 2.8 .

Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount   is defined in  Section
5A.1(a) .

Series 1999-3 Principal Payment Amount   means, for any Settlement Date, an
amount equal to the product of (a) the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage
during the immediately preceding Monthly Period and (b) the Principal Payment Amount for
such Settlement Date.

Series 1999-3 Required Asset Amount   means, as of any date of determination,
the sum of the Series 1999-3 Invested Amount and the Series 1999-3 Required
Overcollateralization Amount as of such date.

Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount   means, on any date of
determination, an amount equal to the greater of (a) 154.39% of the aggregate stated
liquidation preference of the Series 1999-3 Senior Preferred Membership Interests on
such date and (b) (i) during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, 14.9425% of the
Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on such date or (ii) during the Series 1999-3
Amortization Period, 14.9425% of the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on the last day
of the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period;  provided, however  that if on any Settlement Date (1)
the Three Month Average Charge-Off Ratio exceeds 0.50%, (2) the Twelve Month Average
Charge-Off Ratio exceeds 0.25%, (3) the Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio
exceeds 10%, (4) the Twelve Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio exceeds 5%, (5) the
Three Month Average Paid-in Advance Loss Ratio
exceeds 1.00%, (6) the Twelve Month Average Paid-in Advance Loss Ratio exceeds 0.50%
or (7) the Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio for any Settlement Date exceeds 4.5%, the
Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount will be calculated using a percentage of 166.27%
in clause (a) above and 15.9425% in clause (b) above on such date;  provided, however,  that,
after the declaration or occurrence of an Amortization Event, the Series 1999-3 Required
Enhancement Amount shall equal the Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount on the date of
the declaration or occurrence of such Amortization Event.

Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders   means Purchasers having
Commitment Percentages aggregating 66 2/3% or more.

17 

Series 1999-3 Required Qvercollateralization Amount   means, on any date of
determination during an Accrual Period, the amount, if any, by which the Series 1999-3
Required Enhancement Amount exceeds the sum of (a) the Series 1999-3 Reserve
Account Amount and (b) the amount on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection
Subaccount on such date (excluding any amounts deposited therein
pursuant to
Section 5A.2(f) during the Monthly Period commencing after the first day of such Accrual
Period).

Series 1999-3 Required Reserve Account Amount   means, on any date of
determination, an amount equal to 2.2538% of the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on
such date.

Series 1999-3 Required Yield Supplement Amount   means, as of any Settlement
Date, the excess, if any, of (a) the Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall Amount for such
Settlement Date over (b) 70% of the product of (x) the Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage on
such Settlement Date and (y) the Class X 1999-IB Invested Amount as of such Settlement Date
(after giving effect to any increase thereof on such Settlement Date);  provided, however 
that upon the occurrence of a Receivable Purchase Termination Event, the Series
1999-3 Required Yield Supplement Amount will equal the Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall
Amount.

Series 1999-3 Reserve Account   is defined in  Section 5A.9(a) .

Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount   means, on any date of determination,
the amount on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account and available for withdrawal
therefrom.

Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Surplus   means, on any date of determination,
the amount, if any, by which the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount exceeds the Series
1999-3 Required Reserve Account Amount.

Series 1999-3 Revolving Period   means the period from and including the
Effective Date to but excluding the commencement of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period.

Series 1999-3 Senior Preferred Membership Interests   means each series of
Senior Preferred Membership Interests relating to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes issued
by the Issuer pursuant to the LLC Agreement.

Series 1999-3 Servicing Fee   is defined in  Section 6.1 .

Series 1999-3 Servicing Fee Percentage   is defined in  Section 6.1 .

Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount   is defined in
 Section 5A.l(a) .

Series 1999-3 Subaccounts   is defined in  Section 5A.l(a) .

18 

Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Cost of Funds   means, for any Settlement
Date, the product of (a) the quotient of the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of
interest payable on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes on such Settlement
Date and (ii) the
aggregate amount of dividends that would be payable on the Series 1999-3 Preferred
Membership Interests on such Settlement Date, assuming that dividends were
accumulating thereon at the highest applicable rate under the terms of such Series
1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests,  divided by  the sum of (i) the weighted average
Series 1999-3 Invested Amount during the immediately preceding Series 1999-3 Interest
Period and (ii) the aggregate stated liquidation preference of the Series 1999-3 Preferred
Membership Interests as of such Settlement Date (before giving effect to any redemptions on
such Settlement Date) and (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is 360 and the denominator
of which is the number of days in the Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending
on such Settlement Date.

Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Yield Shortfall   means, for any Settlement
Date, the excess, if any, of (a) the Series 1999-3 Minimum Yield Rate for such
Settlement Date over (b) the Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Yield Shortfall Lease
Yield for such Settlement Date.

Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Yield Shortfall Lease Yield   means, for any
Settlement Date, the quotient of (a) the sum of the product with respect to each Series
1999-3 Yield Shortfall Lease of (i) the actual or implicit finance charge rate
applicable to such Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall Lease and (ii) the Net Book Value of the
Leased Vehicle subject to such Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall Lease as of the last day of
the immediately preceding Monthly Period  divided by  (b) the aggregate Net Book Value of
the Leased Vehicles subject to all of the Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall Leases as of
the last day of the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Yield Shortfall Life   means, for any
Settlement Date, 50% of the weighted (on the basis of Net Book Value of the related
Leased Vehicle) average Assumed Lease Term of the Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall
Leases, assuming that all scheduled lease payments are made thereon when scheduled
and that the Obligors thereunder do not elect to convert such Series 1999-3 Yield
Shortfall Leases to Fixed Rate Leases, as of the last day of the immediately preceding
Monthly Period.

Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall Amount   means, for any Settlement Date, (i) if
the Series 1999-3 Hypothetical Yield Shortfall Amount for such Settlement Date is less than
the product of (x) the Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage as of the last day of the
immediately preceding Monthly Period and (y) 70% of the Class X 1999-IB Invested Amount as
of such Settlement Date (after giving effect to any increase thereof on such Settlement
Date), an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Hypothetical Yield Shortfall Amount and (ii)
otherwise, an amount equal to the product of (x) the Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Yield
Shortfall for such Settlement Date, (y) the aggregate Lease Balance of all Series 1999-3
Yield Shortfall Leases as of the last day of the immediately preceding Monthly Period and
(z) the Series 1999-3 Weighted Average Yield Shortfall
Life for such Settlement Date.

19 

Series 1999-3 Yield Shortfall Lease   means, as of any Settlement Date, each
Unit Lease that is a Floating Rate Lease with an actual or implicit finance charge
rate of less than the Series 1999-3 Minimum Yield Rate as of the last day of the
immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account   is defined in  Section
5A.10(a) .

Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account Amount   means, on any date of
determination, the amount on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account and
available for withdrawal therefrom.

Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account Surplus   means, on any date of
determination, the amount, if any, by which the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account
Amount exceeds the Series 1999-3 Required Yield Supplement Amount.

Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Deficiency   means, on any date of
determination, the amount by which the Series 1999-3 Required Yield Supplement Account
Amount is less than the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account Amount.

Statutory Reserve Rate   means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the
numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one
 minus  the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal,
special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal (rounded up to the
nearest 1/100th of 1%) established by the Board with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for
eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as  Eurocurrency Liabilities  in
Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed
pursuant to Regulation D. Eurodollar Tranches shall be deemed to constitute
eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of
or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to
time under such Regulation D or comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be
adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the reserve
percentage.

Taxes   means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties,
deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.

Total Cash Available   means, for any Settlement Date, the excess, if any, of
(a) the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of Collections allocated to the Series 1999-3
General Collection Subaccount pursuant to  Section 5A.2(a)  during the immediately
preceding Monthly Period, (ii) an amount equal to the product of the average daily Series
1999-3 Invested Percentage during such Monthly Period and the amount of the Unit Repurchase
Payments paid by the Servicer or SPV on such Settlement Date, (iii) an amount equal to the
product of the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage during such Monthly Period
and the amount of the Monthly Servicer Advance made by the Servicer on such Settlement
Date, (iv) an amount equal to the product of the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested
Percentage during such Monthly Period and the amount withdrawn from the
Gain on Sale Account pursuant to Section 5.2(e) of the Base Indenture on the Transfer

20 

Date immediately preceding such Settlement Date and (v) the investment income on amounts on
deposit in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount and the Series 1999-3 General
Collection Subaccount transferred to the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount on
such Settlement Date pursuant to  Section 5A. 1(b)  over (b) the aggregate amount
withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount and deposited in the Series
1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount pursuant to  Section 

5A.2(f)  during the immediately preceding Monthly Period.

Transferee   is defined in Section 11.10(f).

Transferee Supplement   is defined in Section 11.10(c).

Year 2000 Compliant   means, with respect to a specified Person, that all of
such Persons  computer applications (including those of suppliers, vendors and customers)
that are material to the performance of the Issuer s, the Servicer s or the Administrator s
obligations under the Transaction Documents are reasonably expected on a timely basis
to be able to perform properly in all material respects date-sensitive functions for
all dates before and after January 1, 2000.

ARTICLE 2

PURCHASE AND SALE OF SERIES 1999-3 INVESTOR NOTES; 
INCREASES AND DECREASES OF SERIES 1999-3 INVESTED AMOUNT

Section 2.1  Purchases of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes .

(a)  Initial Purchases . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Indenture
Supplement, including delivery of notice in accordance with  Section 2.3 , (i) each CP
Conduit Purchaser may, in its sole discretion, purchase a Series 1999-3 Investor Note in an amount
equal to all or a portion of its Commitment Percentage of the Series 1999-3 Initial Invested Amount
on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date to and including the Expiry Date
with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date  ),
and if such CP Conduit Purchaser shall have notified the Administrative Agent and the Funding Agent
with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser that it has elected not to fund a Series 1999-3 Investor
Note in an amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of the Series 1999-3 Initial Invested Amount
on the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date, the APA Bank with respect to such CP
Conduit Purchaser shall fund on the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date that portion of such
Series 1999-3 Investor Note not to be funded by such CP Conduit Purchaser and (ii) thereafter,
(A) if a CP Conduit Purchaser shall have purchased a Series 1999-3 Investor Note on the Series
1999-3 Initial Funding Date, such CP Conduit Purchaser may, in its sole discretion, maintain its
Series 1999-3 Investor Note, subject to increase or decrease during the period from the Effective
Date to and including the Expiry Date with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, in accordance with
the provisions of this Indenture Supplement and (B) the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit
Purchaser shall maintain the Series 1999-3 Investor Note with respect to such Purchaser, subject to
increase or decrease during the period from the Effective Date to and including the Expiry Date
with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture
Supplement. Payments by each CP Conduit Purchaser and/or the APA Bank with

21 

 respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser shall be made in immediately available funds on the Series
1999-3 Initial Funding Date to the Funding Agent with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser for
remittance to the Indenture Trustee for deposit into the Series 1999-3 Collection Subaccount.

(b)  Maximum Purchaser Invested Amounts . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Indenture Supplement, at no time shall the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect
to any Purchaser exceed the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser at
such time.

(c)  Form of Series 1999-3 Investor Notes . The Series 1999-3 Investor Notes shall be
issued in fully registered form without interest coupons, substantially in the form set
forth in Exhibit A hereto.

Section 2.2  Delivery .

(a) On the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date, the Issuer shall sign and shall direct the
Indenture Trustee in writing pursuant to  Section 2.4  of the Base Indenture to duly
authenticate, and the Indenture Trustee, upon receiving such direction, shall so authenticate a
Series 1999-3 Investor Note in the name of the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser in
an amount equal to the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser and
deliver such Series 1999-3 Investor Note to such Funding Agent in accordance with such written
directions.

(b) The Indenture Trustee shall indicate in the Note Register the actual Purchaser Invested
Amount outstanding with respect to each Purchaser and the actual Series
1999-3 Invested Amount outstanding on any date of determination, which, absent manifest error,
shall constitute  prima   facie  evidence of the outstanding Purchaser Invested Amounts
and outstanding Series 1999-3 Invested Amount from time to time.

Section 2.3  Procedure for Initial Issuance and for Increasing the Series 1999-3 Invested
Amount .

(a) Subject to  Section 2.3(c) , (i) on the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date,
each CP Conduit Purchaser may agree, in its sole discretion, to purchase, and the APA Bank
with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser shall purchase, a Series 1999-3 Investor Note in
accordance with  Section 2.1  and (ii) on any Business Day during the period from the
Effective Date to and including the Expiry Date with respect to a CP Conduit Purchaser, such CP
Conduit Purchaser may agree, in its sole discretion, and the APA Bank with respect to such CP
Conduit Purchaser hereby agrees that the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser
may
be increased by an amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of the Increase Amount (an
 Increase ), upon the request of the Issuer (each date on which an increase in the Series 1999-3
Invested Amount occurs hereunder being herein referred to as the   Increase Date   applicable
to such Increase);  provided ,  however , that the Issuer shall have given the
Administrative Agent
(with a copy to the Indenture Trustee) irrevocable written notice (effective upon receipt), by
telecopy (receipt confirmed), substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, of such request no
later than 9:30 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day prior to the Series 1999-3
Initial Funding Date or such Increase Date, as the case may be;  provided ,  further ,
that if the proposed

22 

 amount of any Increase (the   Increase Amount  ) will be $200,000,000 or more, the Issuer
shall have given the Administrative Agent written notice thereof no later than 9:30 A.M., New York
City time, on the second Business Day prior to the proposed Increase Date. Such notice shall
state (x) the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date or the Increase Date, as the case may be, and (y)
the initial invested amount (the   Series 1999-3 Initial Invested Amount  ) or the proposed
Increase Amount, as the case may be.

(b) If a CP Conduit Purchaser elects not to fund the full amount of its Commitment Percentage
of the Series 1999-3 Initial Invested Amount or a requested Increase,
such CP Conduit Purchaser shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Funding Agent with
respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, and the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser
shall fund the portion of its Commitment Percentage of the Series 1999-3 Initial
Invested Amount or such Increase, as the case may be, not funded by such CP Conduit
Purchaser.

(c) No Purchaser shall be required to make the initial purchase of a Series 1999-3 Investor
Note on the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date or to increase its Purchaser Invested Amount on any
Increase Date hereunder unless:

(i) the Series 1999-3 Initial Invested Amount or Increase Amount is
equal to $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof;

(ii) after giving effect to the initial purchase amount or Increase
Amount, the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser would
not exceed the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such
Purchaser;

(iii) after giving effect to the initial purchase amount or Increase
Amount, no Series 1999-3 Allocated Asset Amount Deficiency, Series 1999 -3
Liquid Credit Enhancement Deficiency or Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Deficiency
would have occurred and be continuing;

(iv) no Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event
shall have occurred and be continuing;

(v) all of the representations and warranties made by each of the
Issuer, SPV, the Origination Trust and the Servicer in each Transaction
Document to which it is a party are true and correct in all material respects on
and as of the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date or such Increase Date, as the case
may be, as if made on and as of such date (except to the extent such
representations and warranties are expressly made as of another date); and

(vi) all conditions precedent set forth in  Section 4.2  of the
Transfer Agreement to the funding of the Additional Units, if any, being funded on
the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date or such Increase Date, as the case may be,
shall have been satisfied, including, without limitation, delivery of the
Additional Assignment to the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee in accordance with
 Section 4.2  of the Transfer Agreement.

23 

 The Issuer s acceptance of funds in connection with (x) the initial purchase of Series 1999-3
Investor Notes on the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date and (y) each Increase occurring on any
Increase Date shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Issuer to the applicable
Purchasers as of the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date or such Increase Date (except to the
extent such representations and warranties are expressly made as of another date), as the case
may be, that all of the conditions contained in this  Section 2.3(c)  have been satisfied.

(d) If there is a Principal Overpayment Amount for any Settlement Date, the Issuer shall
request an Increase in accordance with Section 2.3(a) in an amount equal to such Principal
Overpayment Amount effective on such Settlement Date. Notwithstanding the
provisions of  Section 2.3(c) , each Purchaser shall be required to fund its Commitment
Percentage of such an Increase even if the Issuer is unable to satisfy the conditions set
forth in clause  (i) ,  (iii) ,  (iv)  or  (vi)  of  Section 2.3(c) .

(e) Upon receipt of any notice required by  Section 2.3(a)  from the Issuer, the
Administrative Agent shall forward (by telecopy or electronic messaging system) a copy of such
notice to the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser, no later than 1:00 P.M., New York City
time, on the day received. After receipt by any Funding Agent with respect to a Purchaser
of such notice from the Administrative Agent, such Funding Agent shall, except as otherwise
provided in  Section 2.3(d) , so long as the conditions set forth in  Sections 2.3(a) 
and (c) are satisfied, promptly provide telephonic notice to the related CP Conduit Purchaser and
the related APA Bank, of the Increase Date and of such Purchaser s Commitment Percentage of the
Increase Amount. If such CP Conduit Purchaser elects to fund all or a portion of its Commitment
Percentage of the Increase Amount, such CP Conduit Purchaser shall pay in immediately
available funds its Commitment Percentage (or any portion thereof) of the amount of such
Increase on the related Increase Date to the Funding Agent with respect to such Purchaser for
deposit into the Series 1999-3 Collection Subaccount. If such CP Conduit Purchaser does not
fund the full amount of its Commitment Percentage of the Increase Amount and the related APA
Bank funds the portion thereof not funded by the CP Conduit Purchaser, such APA Bank shall
pay in immediately available funds such portion on the related Increase Date to the Funding
Agent with respect to such Purchaser for deposit in the Series 1999-3 Collection Subaccount.

Section 2.4  Sales by CP Conduit Purchasers of Series 1999-3 Investor Notes to APA
Banks . Notwithstanding any limitation to the contrary contained herein, each CP Conduit
Purchaser may, in its own discretion, at any time, sell or assign all or any portion of its
interest in its Series 1999-3 Note to any Conduit Assignee or to the APA Bank with respect to such
CP Conduit Purchaser pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Asset Purchase
Agreement with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser.

Section 2.5  Procedure for Decreasing the Series 1999-3 Invested Amount; Optional
Termination .

(a) On any Business Day prior to the occurrence of an Amortization Event, upon the
written request of the Issuer or the Administrator on behalf of the Issuer, the Series
1999-3 Invested Amount may be reduced (a   Decrease  ) by the Indenture Trustee s
withdrawing from the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account, depositing into the Series 1999-3
Distribution Account and distributing to the Administrative Agent funds on deposit in the Series
1999-3

24 

Principal Collection Subaccount on such day in accordance with  Section 5A,7(c)  in an amount
not to exceed the amount of such funds on deposit on such day;  provided  that the
Administrator shall have given the Administrative Agent (with a copy to the Indenture Trustee)
irrevocable written notice (effective upon receipt) of the amount of such Decrease prior to 9:30
A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day prior to such Decrease, in the case of any
such Decrease in an amount less than $200,000,000, and prior to 9:30 A.M., New York City time, on
a Business Day that is at least ten days prior to such Decrease, in the case of any such Decrease
in an amount of $200,000,000 or more;  provided , further, that any such Decrease shall be in
an amount equal to $10,000,000 and integral multiples of $500,000 in excess thereof. Upon each
Decrease, the Indenture Trustee shall indicate in the Note Register such Decrease. Upon receipt
of any notice required by  Section 2.5(a)  from the Issuer, the Administrative Agent shall
forward (by telecopy or electronic messaging system) a copy of such notice to the Funding Agent
with respect to each Purchaser, no later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the day received.

(b) (i) On any Business Day, the Issuer shall have the right to deliver an
irrevocable written notice (an   Optional Termination Notice  ) to the Administrative
Agent, the
Indenture Trustee, the Administrator and the Rating Agencies in which the Issuer declares that
the Commitments shall terminate on the date (the   Optional Termination Date  ) set
forth in such
notice (which date, in any event, shall be a Payment Date not less than twenty Business Days
from the date on which such notice is delivered). Upon receipt of any Optional Termination
Notice from the Issuer, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Funding Agent with
respect to each Purchaser thereof.

(ii) From and after the Optional Termination Date, the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period
shall commence for all purposes under this Indenture Supplement and the other Transaction
Documents.

(c) If there are funds on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection
Subaccount on any Business Day on which the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to any
Non-Extending Purchaser shall not have been reduced to zero and the Issuer would be permitted
under the terms of  Section 2.5(a)  to effect a Decrease with such funds, the Issuer
shall request
such a Decrease in accordance with  Section 2.5(a)  on the earliest possible date.

Section 2.6  Increases and Reductions of the Commitments; Extensions of the
Commitments .

(a) The Issuer may from time to time request that any Purchaser agree to increase its
Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount. An increase in any Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount shall be
effective hereunder if such Purchaser shall have agreed to such
increase in its Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount and (ii) if such increase results in an
increase in the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount, the aggregate stated liquidation
preference of all Series 1999-3 Senior Preferred Membership Interests on the date of such
increase is at least equal to 9.6783% of the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount, after
giving effect to such increase and the aggregate balances of all of the capital accounts of
the Members of the Issuer are equal to at least 13% of the Issuer s total capitalization, after
giving effect to such increase.

25 

(b) If the Issuer desires to extend the Scheduled Expiry Date with respect to the Purchasers,
the Issuer shall notify the Administrative Agent at least 60 days prior to such Scheduled Expiry
Date of its desire to extend the Scheduled Expiry Date with respect to the Purchasers, whereupon
the Administrative Agent shall notify the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser of the
Issuer s desire to so extend the Scheduled Expiry Date. Each Funding
Agent, on behalf of its Purchaser, shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Issuer in
writing
of whether such Purchaser agrees to an extension of the Scheduled Expiry Date with respect to
such Purchaser;  provided  that failure by a Funding Agent to respond to such request shall
not be construed as a consent by such Purchaser to such extension. The decision to extend or not
extend shall be made by each Purchaser in its sole discretion. In the event that any Purchaser
desires to extend its Scheduled Expiry Date for an amount that is less than its Maximum
Purchaser Invested Amount prior to the Issuer s request for an extension, the Issuer, in its
sole discretion, may accept such extension;  provided ,  however , that such Purchaser
(x) shall be
deemed to be a Non-Extending Purchaser for purposes of  Section 5A.7(c)  having a
Purchaser Invested Amount equal to the excess of its Purchaser Invested Amount over the Maximum
Purchaser Invested Amount that will be available after the extension of its Scheduled Expiry
Date and (y) shall be deemed to be an Extending Purchaser with a Maximum Purchaser Invested
Amount equal to the portion of its Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount that will be available after
the extension of its Scheduled Expiry Date. Any extension of the Scheduled Expiry Date
with respect to a Purchaser shall be subject to the prior written consent of each Series
1999-3 Preferred Member.

(c) On any Business Day during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, the Issuer may, upon two
(2) Business Days  prior written notice to the Administrative Agent (effective upon receipt) (with
copies to the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee) reduce the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested
Amount in an amount equal to $10,000,000 or a whole
multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof;  provided  that no such termination or
reduction shall be permitted if, after giving effect thereto and to any reduction in the Series
1999-3 Invested
Amount on such date, the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to any Purchaser would
exceed the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser then in effect.
Any reduction in the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount shall be made on a  pro rata 
basis to the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amounts with respect to the Purchasers, based on the
Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to each Purchaser. Once reduced, the Maximum
Purchaser Invested Amounts may not be subsequently reinstated.

Section 2.7  Interest; Fees .

(a) Interest shall be payable on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes on each Payment Date
pursuant to  Section 5A.5(a) .
On any Business Day, the Issuer may, subject to Section 2.7(c), elect to
allocate all or any portion of the Available CP Funding Amount with respect to any Match
Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, to one or more CP Tranches with CP Rate Periods commencing
on such Business Day by giving the Administrative Agent and the Funding Agent with respect to
such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser irrevocable written or telephonic (confirmed in writing)
notice thereof, which notice must be received by such Funding Agent prior to 11:00
A.M., New York City time, one Business Day prior to such Business Day. Such notice shall

26 

 specify (i) the applicable Business Day, (ii) the CP Rate Period for each CP Tranche to which a
portion of the Available CP Funding Amount with respect to such Purchaser is to be allocated
and (iii) the portion of such Available CP Funding Amount being allocated to each such CP Tranche.
On any Business Day, the Issuer may, subject to  Section 2.7(c) , elect to allocate all or
any portion of the Available APA Bank Funding Amount with respect to any Purchaser to one or more
Eurodollar Tranches with Eurodollar Periods commencing on such Business Day by giving the
Administrative Agent and the Funding Agent with respect to such Purchaser irrevocable written or
telephonic (confirmed in writing) notice thereof, which notice must be received by
such Funding Agent prior to 1:00 P.M., New York City time, three Business Days prior to such
Business Day. Such notice shall specify (i) the applicable Business Day, (ii) the Eurodollar
Period for each Eurodollar Tranche to which a portion of the Available APA Bank Funding Amount with
respect to such Purchaser is to be allocated and (iii) the portion of such Available APA Bank
Funding Amount being allocated to each such Eurodollar Tranche. Upon receipt of
any such notice, the Funding Agent with respect to a Purchaser shall notify the CP Conduit
Purchaser and the APA Bank with respect to such Purchaser of the contents of such notice promptly
upon receipt thereof.

(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this  Section 2.7 , (i) (A)
each Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser shall approve the length of each CP Rate Period and the
portion of the Available CP Funding Amount with respect to such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser
allocated to such CP Rate Period, (B) such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser may select, in its
sole discretion, any new CP Rate Period if (x) the Issuer does not provide notice of a new CP Rate
Period on a timely basis or (y) the Funding Agent with respect
to such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser, on behalf of such Match Funding CP Conduit
Purchaser, determines, in its sole discretion, that the CP Rate Period requested by the Issuer is
unavailable or for any reason commercially undesirable and (C) the portion of the Available CP
Funding Amount with respect to such Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser allocable to each
CP Tranche must be in an amount equal to $1,000,000 or an integral multiple of $100,000 in
excess thereof and (ii) (A) the portion of the Available APA Bank Funding Amount with respect
to any Purchaser allocable to each Eurodollar Tranche must be in an amount equal to $100,000
or an integral multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof, (B) no more than 10 Eurodollar Tranches
with respect to such Purchaser shall be outstanding at any one time, (C) after the occurrence and
during the continuance of any Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event, the Issuer
may not elect to allocate any portion of the Available APA Bank Funding Amount with respect
to any Purchaser to a Eurodollar Tranche and (D) during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period,
the Issuer may not select any Eurodollar Period that does not end on or prior to the next
succeeding Payment Date.

(d) On any Business Day, a Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser may elect that the Issuer no
longer be permitted to select CP Tranches in accordance with  Sections 2.7(b)  
and (c) in respect of the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser
by giving the Issuer and the Administrative Agent irrevocable written notice thereof, which
notice must be received by the Issuer and the Administrative Agent at least one Business Day
prior to such Business Day. On any Business Day, a Pooled Funding CP Conduit Purchaser may
elect thereafter to allow the Issuer to select CP Tranches in accordance with  Sections
2.7(b)  and
 (c)  in respect of the CP Conduit Funded Amount with respect to such CP Conduit
Purchaser by giving the Issuer and the Administrative Agent irrevocable written notice thereof,
which notice

27 

 must be received by the Issuer and the Administrative Agent at least one Business Day prior to such
Business Day. Any CP Conduit Purchaser making an election to change the manner in
which its funding costs in respect of its Series 1999-3 Investor Note are allocated in accordance
with this  Section 2.7(d)  will be both a Match Funding CP Conduit Purchaser and a Pooled
Funding CP Conduit Purchaser during the period that its Series 1999-3 Investor Note is funded
on both a  pooled  and  match funded  basis and its Monthly Funding Costs during that period will
be calculated accordingly.

(e) The Indenture Trustee (acting at the written direction of the Administrator upon which the
Indenture Trustee may conclusively rely) shall distribute pursuant to  Section 5A.5(b) , from
amounts deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account pursuant to Section 5A.4(c), to the
Administrative Agent, for the account of each Purchaser, on each Payment Date,
a commitment fee with respect to the Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending on such Payment Date
(the  Commitment Fee ) during the period from the Effective Date to and including the Expiry Date
with respect to such Purchaser at the Commitment Fee Rate of the average daily
Commitment Amount with respect to such Purchaser during such Series 1999-3 Interest Period
less the average daily Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser during such
Series 1999-3 Interest Period. The Commitment Fee shall be payable monthly in arrears on each
Payment Date.

(f) Calculations of per annum rates under this Indenture Supplement shall be made on the basis
of a 360- (or 365-/366-, in the case of interest on the Floating Tranche based
on the Prime Rate) day year. Calculations of Commitment Fees shall be made on the basis of a
360-day year. Each determination of the Adjusted LIBO Rate by the Administrative Agent shall
be conclusive and binding upon each of the parties hereto in the absence of manifest error.

Section 2.8  Indemnification by the Issuer and the Administrator .

(a) The Issuer agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Indenture Trustee,
the Administrative Agent, each Funding Agent, each Purchaser and each of their respective
officers, directors, agents and employees (each, a   Company indemnified person  ) from and
against any loss, liability, expense, damage or injury suffered or sustained by (a   Claim  )
such Company indemnified person by reason of (i) any acts, omissions or alleged acts or omissions
arising out of, or relating to, activities of the Issuer pursuant to the Indenture or the other
Transaction Documents to which it is a party, (ii) a breach of any representation or warranty
made or deemed made by the Issuer (or any of its officers) in the Indenture or other
Transaction Document or (iii) a failure by the Issuer to comply with any applicable law or
regulation or to perform its covenants, agreements, duties or obligations required to be performed
or observed by
it in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture or the other Transaction Documents,
including, but not limited to, any judgment, award, settlement, reasonable attorneys  fees and
other reasonable costs or expenses incurred in connection with the defense of any actual or
threatened action, proceeding or claim, except to the extent such loss, liability, expense, damage
or injury (A) resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or wilful misconduct of such
Company indemnified person or its officers, directors, agents, principals, employees or
employers, (B) resulted solely from a default by an Obligor with respect to any Sold Unit or
Fleet Receivable or (C) includes any Excluded Taxes; provided that any payments made by the
Issuer pursuant to this  Section 2.8  shall be made solely from funds available therefor
pursuant to

28 

Section 5A.5(e), shall be non-recourse other than with respect to such funds, and shall not
constitute a claim against the Issuer to the extent that such funds are insufficient to make such
payment.

(b) The Administrator agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Indenture Trustee, the
Administrative Agent, each Funding Agent, each Purchaser and each of their respective officers,
directors, agents and employees (each, a   Administrator indemnified  
 person  ) from and against any Claim by reason of (i) any acts, omissions or alleged
acts or omissions arising out of, or relating to, activities of the Administrator pursuant to the
Indenture
or the other Transaction Documents to which it is a party, (ii) a breach of any representation
or warranty made or deemed made by the Administrator (or any of its officers) in the Indenture or
other Transaction Document or (iii) a failure by the Administrator to comply with any applicable
law or regulation or to perform its covenants, agreements, duties or obligations required to be
performed or observed by it in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture or the other
Transaction Documents, including, but not limited to, any judgment, award, settlement,
reasonable attorneys  fees and other reasonable costs or expenses incurred in connection with
the defense of any actual or threatened action, proceeding or claim, except to the extent such
loss, liability, expense, damage or injury (A) resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or
wilful misconduct of such Administrator indemnified person or its officers, directors, agents,
principals, employees or employers, (B) resulted solely from a default by an Obligor with respect
to any
Sold Unit or Fleet Receivable or (C) include any Excluded Taxes.

Section 2.9  Funding Agents .

(a) The Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser is hereby authorized to record on each
Business Day the CP Funded Amount with respect to such Purchaser and the aggregate amount of
Discount accruing with respect thereto on such Business Day and the APA Bank Funded Amount with
respect to such Purchaser and the amount of interest accruing with respect thereto on such
Business Day and, based on such recordations, to determine the Monthly Funding Costs with respect
to each Series 1999-3 Interest Period and such Purchaser. Any such recordation by a Funding Agent,
absent manifest error, shall constitute  prima   facie  evidence of
the accuracy of the information so recorded. Furthermore, the Funding Agent with respect to
each Purchaser will maintain records sufficient to identify the percentage interest of the
related
CP Conduit Purchaser and each APA Bank with respect to such Purchaser holding an interest in
the Series 1999-3 Investor Note registered in the name of such Funding Agent and any amounts owing
thereunder.

(b) Upon receipt of funds from the Administrative Agent on each Payment Date and the date of
any Decrease, each Funding Agent shall pay such funds to the related CP Conduit Purchaser and/or
the related APA Bank owed such funds in accordance with the recordations maintained by it in
accordance with  Section 2.9(a)  and the Asset Purchase
Agreement with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser. If a Funding Agent shall have paid to
any CP Conduit Purchaser or APA Bank any funds that (i) must be returned for any reason
(including bankruptcy) or (ii) exceeds that which such CP Conduit Purchaser or APA Bank was
entitled to receive, such amount shall be promptly repaid to such Funding Agent by such CP Conduit
Purchaser or APA Bank.

29 

ARTICLE 3

ARTICLE 5 OF THE BASE INDENTURE

Sections 5.1  through  5.4  of the Base Indenture and each other Section of
Article 5 of the Indenture relating to another Series shall read in their entirety as provided in
the Base Indenture or any applicable Indenture Supplement.  Article 5  of the Base Indenture
(except for  Sections 5.1  through  5.4  thereof and any portion thereof relating to
another Series) shall read in its entirety as follows and shall be exclusively applicable to the
Series 1999-3 Investor Notes:

Section 5A.1  Establishment of Series 1999-3 Subaccounts .

(a) The Indenture Trustee shall establish and maintain in the name of the Indenture Trustee
for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders (i) a subaccount of the Collection
Account (the   Series 1999-3 Collection Subaccount   and (ii) three subaccounts of the
Series 1999-3 Collection Subaccount: (1) the Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount, (2) the
Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount and (3) the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection
Subaccount (respectively, the   Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount .  the
  Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount   and the  Series 1999-3 Settlement
Collection Subaccount  the accounts established pursuant to this  Section 5A.l(a) ,
collectively, the   Series 1999-3 Subaccounts  ), each Series 1999-3 Subaccount to bear a
designation indicating that the funds deposited therein are held for the benefit of the Series
1999- 3 Investor Noteholders. The Indenture Trustee shall possess all right, title and interest in
all moneys, instruments, securities and other property on deposit from time to time in the Series
1999-3 Subaccounts and the proceeds thereof for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor
Noteholders. The Series 1999-3 Subaccounts shall be under the sole dominion and control of the
Indenture Trustee for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders.

(b) (i) So long as no Amortization Event has occurred, the Issuer shall instruct the
institution maintaining the Collection Account in writing to invest funds on deposit in the Series
1999-3 Subaccounts at all times in Permitted Investments selected by the Issuer (by standing
instructions or otherwise);  provided ,  however , that funds on deposit in a Series
1999-3 Subaccounts may be invested together with funds held in other subaccounts of the Collection
Account. Amounts on deposit and available for investment in the Series 1999-3 General Collection
Subaccount and the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount shall be invested by the Indenture
Trustee at the written direction of the Issuer, so long as no Amortization Event has occurred, in
Permitted Investments that mature, or that are payable or redeemable upon demand of the holder
thereof, on or prior to the next Business Day. On each Settlement Date, all interest and other
investment earnings (net of losses and investment expenses) on funds deposited in the Series 1999-3
Principal Collection Subaccount and the Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount shall be
deposited in the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount. The Issuer shall not direct the
Indenture Trustee to dispose of (or permit the disposal of) any Permitted Investments prior to the
maturity thereof to the extent such disposal would result in a loss of principal of such Permitted
Investment. In the absence of written direction as provided hereunder, all funds on deposit in the
Collection Account shall remain uninvested.

30 

(ii) After the occurrence of an Amortization Event, the Administrative Agent shall
instruct the institution maintaining the Collection Account in writing to invest funds on deposit
in the Series 1999-3 Subaccounts from time to time in Permitted Investments selected by the
Administrative Agent (by standing instructions or otherwise). Amounts on deposit and available for
investment in the Series 1999-3 Subaccounts shall be invested by the Indenture Trustee at the
written direction of the Administrative Agent in Permitted Investments that mature, or that are
payable or redeemable upon demand of the holder thereof on or prior to the Business Day immediately
preceding the next Payment Date. On each Settlement Date, all interest and other investment
earnings (net of losses and investment expenses) on funds deposited in the Series 1999-3 General
Collection Subaccount and the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount shall be deposited in
the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount. The Administrative Agent shall not direct the
Indenture Trustee to dispose of (or permit the disposal of) any Permitted Investments prior to the
maturity thereof to the extent such disposal would result in a loss of principal of such Permitted
Investment. In the absence of written direction as provided hereunder, all funds on deposit shall
remain uninvested.

Section 5A.2  Allocations with Respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes .

(a) Prior to 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on each Deposit Date, the Administrator shall
direct the Indenture Trustee in writing to allocate to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders and
deposit in the Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount an amount equal to the product of the
Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage on such Deposit Date and the Collections deposited into the
Collection Account on such Deposit Date.

(b) The Administrator shall direct the Indenture Trustee in writing to allocate to the Series
1999-3 Investor Noteholders and deposit in the Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount the
following amounts on each Business Day (the   Series 1999-3 Daily Principal Allocation  ):

(i) the proceeds from the initial sale of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes or
any Increase; and

(ii) any amounts allocated to another Series of Investor Notes that the Issuer
or the Administrator, on behalf of the Issuer, has elected to apply to reduce the Series
1999-3 Invested Amount.

(c) On each Determination Date, the Administrator shall direct the Indenture Trustee in
writing to allocate to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders and deposit in the Series 1999-3
Settlement Collection Subaccount on the immediately succeeding Transfer Date amounts withdrawn from
the Gain on Sale Account, in an amount equal to the product of the average daily Series 1999-3
Invested Percentage during the immediately preceding Monthly Period and the amount withdrawn from
the Gain on Sale Account pursuant to Section 5.2(e) of the Base Indenture on such Transfer Date.

(d) On each Determination Date, the Administrator shall direct the Indenture Trustee in
writing to allocate to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders and deposit in the Series

31 

 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount on the immediately succeeding Settlement Date the following
amounts:

(i) any Unit Repurchase Payments made by the Servicer or SPV, in an amount
equal to the product of the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage during the
immediately preceding Monthly Period and the amount of such Unit Repurchase Payments;

(ii) the Monthly Servicer Advance made by the Servicer, in an amount equal to
the product of the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage during the immediately
preceding Monthly Period and the amount of such Monthly Servicer Advance; and

(iii) payments made under the Lease Rate Caps maintained by the Issuer pursuant
to  Section 5A.12 , in an amount equal to the product of the average daily Series
1999-3 Invested Percentage during the immediately preceding Monthly Period and the amount
of such payments.

(e) On each Business Day, the Administrator will direct the Indenture Trustee in writing to
allocate, prior to 1:00 P.M., New York City time, the Series 1999-3 Daily Principal Allocation
deposited in the Series 1999-3 Collection Subaccount in the following priority:

(i) if such Business Day is a Settlement Date, allocate to the Series 1999-3
Settlement Collection Subaccount, an amount equal to the lesser of (A) the proceeds from
any Increase on such Settlement Date and (B) the Principal Overpayment Amount for such
Settlement Date; and

(ii) allocate any remaining portion of any Increase and any amounts allocated to
another Series of Investor Notes that the Issuer or the Administrator, on behalf of the
Issuer, has elected to apply to reduce the Series 1999-3 Invested Amount to the Series
1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount.

(f) If, on any Business Day during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, other than during any
Paydown Period, the sum of (i) the Series 1999-3 Daily Principal Allocation and (ii) the amount on
deposit in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount on such Business Day is less than the
Daily Principal Utilization Amount for such Business Day, the Administrator will direct the
Indenture Trustee in writing, prior to 1:00 P.M., New York City time, to withdraw an amount equal
to such deficit from the Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount and deposit it into the
Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount.

(g) The Administrator may direct the Indenture Trustee in writing by 1:00 P.M., New York City
time, on any Business Day during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period to withdraw amounts on deposit
in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount for any of the following purposes:

(i) if such Business Day is an Additional Closing Date, to pay all or a portion
of the Transferred Asset Payment due on such Additional Closing Date pursuant to the
Transfer Agreement;

32 

(ii) if the Administrator shall have given the Administrative Agent written
notice of a Decrease in accordance with  Section 2.5(a) ,
to the
Series 1999-3 Invested Amount in accordance with  Section 2.5 ; or

(iii) to reduce the Invested Amount of any other Series of Investor Notes;

provided ,  however  that during any Paydown Period the Administrator may withdraw
amounts on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount pursuant to this
 Section 5A.2(g)  only to reduce the Purchaser Invested Amounts of the Non-Extending
Purchaser or Non- Extending Purchasers pursuant to  Sections 2.5(a)  and  5A.7(c) .

(h) On any Business Day during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period prior to the
occurrence of an Amortization Event, the Administrator may direct the Indenture Trustee in writing
to withdraw amounts on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount and apply them
to reduce the Series 1999-3 Invested Amount in accordance with  Section 2.5 ;  provided,  that
the Administrator shall have given the Administrative Agent written notice of such Decrease in
accordance with  Section 2.5(a) .

Section 5A.3  Determination of Interest .

(a) On each Determination Date, the Administrator shall determine the Series 1999-3 Note
Rate for the Series 1999-3 Interest Rate Period ending on the next succeeding Payment Date, based
on the information provided by the Funding Agents pursuant to this  Section 5A.3(a) , and the
amount of interest payable on such next succeeding Payment Date on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes
(  Series 1999-3 Monthly Interest  ). Series 1999-3 Monthly Interest for each Series 1999-3
Interest Period will equal the product of (i) the Series 1999-3 Note Rate for such Series 1999-3
Interest Period, (ii) the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Amount during such Series 1999-3
Interest Period and (iii) the actual number of days elapsed in such Series 1999-3 Interest Period
 divided  by 360. On each Determination Date, the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser shall
provide written notice to the Administrator of the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to such
Purchaser with respect to the portion of the current Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending on such
Determination Date (or, in the case of the Series 1999-3 Interest Period immediately preceding the
Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date, an estimate of the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to such
Purchaser for such Series 1999-3 Interest Period). For the purposes of determining Series 1999-3
Monthly Interest for each Series 1999-3 Interest Period (other than the Series 1999-3 Interest
Period immediately preceding the Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date), the Administrator may make a
reasonable estimation of the portion of the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to each Purchaser to
accrue during the portion of such Series 1999-3 Interest Period succeeding such Determination Date,
based on its reasonable expectations of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such
Purchaser during such period, the Discount on the Commercial Paper issued by, or for the benefit
of, such Purchaser to fund such Purchaser Invested Amount during such period or the Adjusted LIBO
Rates or the Alternate Base Rate applicable to such Purchaser Invested Amount during such period.
If the actual amount of the portion of the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to any Purchaser
accruing during the portion of any Series 1999-3 Interest Period succeeding the Determination Date
in such Series 1999-3 Interest Period is less than or greater than the amount thereof estimated by
the Administrator on such Determination Date, the Administrator will

33 

reduce or increase the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to such Purchaser with respect to the
next succeeding Series 1999-3 Interest Period accordingly. The Administrator shall determine Series
1999-3 Monthly Interest for the Series 1999-3 Interest Period immediately preceding the Series
1999-3 Note Termination Date on the Determination Date immediately preceding the last day of such
Series 1999-3 Interest Period based on the information provided by the Funding Agents. If a Funding
Agent with respect to any Purchaser determines that the actual Monthly Funding Costs with respect
to such Purchaser for the Series 1999-3 Interest Period immediately preceding the Series 1999-3
Note Termination Date will be more or less than the estimate thereof provided to the Administrator
and informs the Administrator of such variance prior to the Payment Date for such Series 1999-3
Interest Period, the Administrator will amend the Monthly Settlement Statement relating thereto to
reflect that variance and provide the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative Agent and each Funding
Agent with an amended Monthly Settlement Statement on or prior to such Payment Date.

(b) On each Determination Date, the Administrator shall determine the excess, if any
(the   Interest Shortfall  ), of (i) the sum of (x) the Series 1999-3 Monthly Interest for
the Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending on the next succeeding Payment Date and (y) the amount of
any unpaid Interest Shortfall, as of the preceding Payment Date (together with any Additional
Interest on such Interest Shortfall) over (ii) the amount which will be available to be distributed
to the Purchasers on such Payment Date in respect thereof pursuant to this Indenture Supplement. If
the Interest Shortfall with respect to any Payment Date is greater than zero, an additional amount
(  Additional Interest  ) equal to the product of (A) the number of days until such Interest
Shortfall shall be repaid  divided   by  365 (or 366, as the case may be), (B) the Alternate
Base Rate  plus  2.0% and (C) such Interest Shortfall (or the portion thereof which has not been
paid to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders) shall be payable as provided herein on each Payment
Date following such Payment Date, to but excluding the Payment Date on which such Interest
Shortfall is paid to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders.

Section 5A.4  Monthly Application of Collections .

(a) On each Settlement Date, the Administrator shall direct the Indenture Trustee in writing
to withdraw from the Series 1999-3 General Collection Subaccount and allocate to the Series 1999-3
Settlement Collection Subaccount an amount equal to Total Cash Available for such Settlement Date
(less an amount equal to the investment income from the Series 1999-3 General Collection
Subaccount and the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount transferred to the Series 1999-3
Settlement Collection Subaccount pursuant to  Section 5A. Kb) ).

(b) If the Administrator determines that the aggregate amount distributable from the
 Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount pursuant to paragraphs (i) through (xi) of 
Section 5A.4(c) on any Payment Date exceeds the sum of the Total Cash Available for such Payment
Date and the amount to be deposited in the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount pursuant
to  Section 5A.2(e)(i)  on such Payment Date (the   Deficiency  ), the Administrator
shall notify the Indenture Trustee thereof in writing at or before 10:00 A.M., New York City time,
on the Business Day immediately preceding such Payment Date, and the Indenture Trustee shall, by
11:00 A.M., New York City time, on such Payment Date, withdraw from the Series 1999-3 Reserve
Account and deposit in the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection

34 

Subaccount an amount equal to the least of (x) such Deficiency, (y) the product of the average
daily Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage during the immediately preceding Monthly Period and
Aggregate Net Lease Losses for such Monthly Period and (z) the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount
and, to the extent that such amount is less than the Deficiency, withdraw from the Series 1999-3
Yield Supplement Account and deposit in the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount an
amount equal to the lesser of the amount of such insufficiency and the Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account Amount. If the Deficiency with respect to any Payment Date exceeds the amounts
to be withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account and the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement
Account pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, the Administrator shall instruct the
Indenture Trustee in writing at or before 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day
immediately preceding such Payment Date, and the Indenture Trustee shall, by 11:00 A.M., New York
City time, on such Payment Date, withdraw from the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account and deposit in the
Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount an amount equal to the lesser of (x) the remaining
portion of the Deficiency and (y) the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount (after giving effect to
the withdrawal described in the immediately preceding sentence).

(c) On each Payment Date, based solely on the information contained in the Monthly
Settlement Statement with respect to Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall
apply the following amounts allocated to, or deposited in, the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection
Subaccount on such Payment Date in the following order of priority:

(i) to SPV, an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Excess Fleet Receivable
Amount, if any, for such Payment Date;

(ii) to the Gain On Sale Account, an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Monthly
Residual Value Gain, if any, for such Payment Date;

(iii) to the Servicer, an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Monthly Servicer
Advance Reimbursement Amount for such Payment Date;

(iv) if VMS is not the Servicer, to the Servicer, an amount equal to the Series
1999-3 Servicing Fee for the Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending on such Payment Date;

(v) to the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account, an amount equal to the Series
1999-3 Monthly Interest payable on such Payment Date  plus  the amount of any unpaid Interest
Shortfall, as of the preceding Payment Date, together with any Additional Interest on such
Interest Shortfall (such amount, the   Monthly Interest Payment  

(vi) to the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account, an amount equal to the Commitment
Fee for the Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending on such Payment Date  plus  the amount of
any unpaid Commitment Fee for any prior Series 1999-3 Interest Period (such amount, the
  Commitment Fee Payment  

(vii) if VMS is the Servicer, to the Servicer, an amount equal to the Series
1999-3 Servicing Fee for the Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending on such Payment Date;

35 

(viii) to the Administrator, an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Administrator Fee
for the Series 1999-3 Interest Period ending on such Payment Date;

(ix) to the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account, an amount equal to the lesser of
(A) Increased Costs for such Payment Date and (B) the Additional Costs Cap for such Payment
Date;

(x) other than during a Lockout Period, to the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member
Distribution Account, an amount equal to the Dividend Amount for such Payment Date;

(xi) (A) on any Payment Date during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, other than
during any Paydown Period, to the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount, an amount
equal to the Series 1999-3 Allocated Asset Amount Deficiency, if any, on such Payment
Date, (B) on any Payment Date during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period and a Paydown
Period, to the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount, an amount equal to the lesser
of the Series 1999-3 Principal Payment Amount for such Payment Date and the aggregate
Purchaser Invested Amounts with respect to the Non-Extending Purchasers on such Payment
Date, (C) on any Payment Date during the period from and including the first day of the
Series 1999-3 Amortization Period to and including the Series 1999-3 Note Termination
Date, to the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount, an amount equal to the lesser
of the Series 1999-3 Principal Payment Amount for such Payment Date and the Series 1999-3
Invested Amount on such Payment Date and (D) on any Payment Date on and after the Series
1999-3 Note Termination Date, to the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account,
an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Principal Payment Amount for such Payment Date (or,
on the Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date, the portion thereof not deposited into the
Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount);  provided, however  that on or after the
Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date during a Lockout Period, the Series 1999-3 Principal
Payment Amount for such Payment Date (or, on the Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date, the
portion thereof not deposited into the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount)
shall be applied by the Indenture Trustee in accordance with Section 5.4(d) of the Base
Indenture;

(xii) to the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account, to the extent that a Series 1999-3
Liquid Credit Enhancement Deficiency exists or, during the Series 1999-3 Amortization
Period, to the extent that a Series 1999-3 Allocated Asset Amount Deficiency exists, an
amount equal to the greater of such deficiencies;

(xiii) to the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account, to the extent that a Series
1999-3 Yield Supplement Deficiency exists (or, will exist after giving effect to any
reduction in the 1999-IB Invested Amount on such Payment Date), an amount equal to such
deficiency;

(xiv) to the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account, an amount equal to the Lease Rate
Cap Costs for such Payment Date;

36 

(xv) to the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account, an amount equal to the excess, if
any, of (A) Increased Costs for such Payment Date over (B) the Additional Costs Cap for
such Payment Date; and

(xvi) to the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account, an amount equal
to the balance remaining in the Series 1999-3 Settlement Collection Subaccount.

Section 5A.5  Payment of Monthly Interest Payment, Fees and Expenses .

(a) On each Payment Date, based solely on the information contained in the Monthly Settlement
Statement with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall, in
accordance with  Section 6.1  of the Base Indenture, pay to the Administrative Agent, for the
account of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, from the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account the
Monthly Interest Payment to the extent of the amount deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution
Account for the payment of interest pursuant to  Section 5AA(c)(v)  .  Upon the receipt of
funds from the Indenture Trustee on each Payment Date on account of the Monthly Interest Payment,
the Administrative Agent shall pay to each Funding Agent with respect to a Purchaser an amount
equal to the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to such Purchaser with respect to the immediately
succeeding Series 1999-3 Interest Period  plus  the amount of any unpaid Interest Shortfall payable
to such Purchaser as of the preceding Payment Date, together with any Additional Interest thereon.
If the amount deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account on any Payment Date pursuant to
 Section 5A.4(c)(v)  is less than the Monthly Interest Payment on such Payment Date, the
Administrative Agent shall pay the amount available to the Funding Agents, on behalf of the
Purchasers, on a  pro rata  basis, based on the Monthly Funding Costs with respect to each Purchaser
with respect to the immediately succeeding Series 1999-3 Interest Period.

(b) On each Payment Date, based solely on the information contained in the Monthly
Settlement Statement with respect to Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall pay
to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, from the
Series 1999-3 Distribution Account the Commitment Fee Payment for such Payment Date to the extent
of the amount deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account for the payment of such
Commitment Fee Payment pursuant to  Section 5A.4(c)(vi) . Upon the receipt of funds from the
Indenture Trustee on each Payment Date on account of the Commitment Fee Payment, the Administrative
Agent shall pay to each Funding Agent with respect to a Purchaser an amount equal to the
Commitment Fee payable to such Purchaser with respect to the immediately succeeding Series 1999-3
Interest Period  plus  the amount of any unpaid Commitment Fee for any prior Series 1999-3 Interest
Period payable to such Purchaser. If the amount deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution
Account on any Payment Date pursuant to  Section 5A.4(c)(vi)  is less than the Commitment Fee
Payment on such Payment Date, the Administrative Agent shall pay the amount available to the
Funding Agents, on behalf of the Purchasers, on a  pro rata  basis, based on the Commitment Fee
payable to each Purchaser with respect to the immediately succeeding Series 1999-3 Interest Period.

(c) On each Payment Date, based solely on the information contained in the Monthly Settlement
Statement with respect to Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall pay to the
Administrative Agent, for the account of the Series 1999-3 Investor

37 

Noteholders, from the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account any Article 7 Costs due and payable on
such Payment Date to any CP Conduit Purchaser or any APA Bank to the extent of the amounts
deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account for the payment of such Article 7 Costs
pursuant to Sections 5A.4(c)(ix) and (xv). Upon the receipt of funds from the Indenture Trustee on
any Payment Date on account of Article 7 Costs, the Administrative Agent shall pay such amounts to
the Funding Agent with respect to the CP Conduit Purchaser or the APA Bank owed such amounts. If
the amounts deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account on any Payment Date pursuant to
Section 5A.4(c)(ix) and (xv) are less than the Article 7 Costs due and payable on such Payment
Date, the Administrative Agent shall pay the amounts available to the Funding Agents with respect
to the CP Conduit Purchasers and APA Banks owed such amounts, on a  pro rata  basis, based on the
amounts owing to such CP Conduit Purchasers and APA Banks.

(d) On each Payment Date, based solely on the information contained in the Monthly Settlement
Statement with respect to Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall pay to the
Persons owed any other unpaid Program Costs due and payable on such Payment Date or any amounts due
and payable pursuant to Section 2.8 on such Payment Date from the Series 1999-3 Distribution
Account to the extent of the amount deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account for the
payment of such Program Costs pursuant to  Sections 5A.4(c)(ix)  and  (xv) . If the
excess of the amounts deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account on any Payment Date
pursuant to  Section 5A.4(c)(ix)  and (xv) over the amount of Article 7 Costs due and
payable on such Payment Date is less than the sum of the unpaid Program Costs due and payable on
such Payment Date and the amounts due and payable pursuant to  Section 2.8  on such Payment
Date, the Indenture Trustee shall pay the amount available to Persons owed such amounts on a  pro
rata  basis, based on the amounts owing to such Persons.

(e) On each Payment Date, based solely on the information contained in the Monthly Settlement
Statement with respect to Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall pay to the
Administrative Agent, for the account of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, from the Series
1999-3 Distribution Account any Lease Rate Cap Costs to the extent of the amount deposited in the
Series 1999-3 Distribution Account for the payment of such Lease Rate Cap Costs pursuant to
 Sections 5A.4(c)(xiv) . Upon the receipt of funds from the Indenture Trustee on each Payment
Date on account of Lease Rate Cap Costs, the Administrative Agent shall pay to each Funding Agent
with respect to a Purchaser an amount equal to the Lease Rate Cap Costs payable to such Purchaser.
If the amount deposited in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account on any Payment Date pursuant to
 Section 5A.4(c)(xiv)  is less than the Lease Rate Cap Costs on such Payment Date, the
Administrative Agent shall pay the amount available to the Funding Agents, on behalf of the
Purchasers, on a  pro rata  basis, based on the Lease Rate Cap Costs payable to each Purchaser.

Section 5A.6  Determination of Monthly Principal Payment .

The amount (the   Monthly Principal Payment  ) distributable from the Series 1999-3
Principal Collection Subaccount on each Payment Date during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period
shall be equal to the amount on deposit in such account on such Payment Date;  provided ,
 however , that the Monthly Principal Payment on any Payment Date shall not exceed the Series
1999-3 Invested Amount on such Payment Date. Further, on any other

38 

Business Day during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period prior to the occurrence of an
Amortization Event, funds may be distributed from the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account to the
Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders in accordance with  Section 5A.7(c) . On each Payment Date
during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, based solely on the information contained in the
Monthly Settlement Statement with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Indenture
Trustee shall withdraw from the Series 1999-3 Principal Collection Subaccount and deposit in the
Series 1999-3 Distribution Account an amount equal to the Monthly Principal Payment on such
Payment Date.

Section 5A.7  Payment of Principal .

(a) The principal amount of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes shall be due and payable on the
Final Maturity Date.

(b) On each Payment Date during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, based solely on the
information contained in the Monthly Settlement Statement with respect to Series 1999-3 Investor
Notes, the Indenture Trustee shall, in accordance with  Section 6.1  of the Base Indenture,
pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, from
the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account the Monthly Principal Payment. Upon the receipt of funds
from the Indenture Trustee on any Payment Date on account of the Monthly Principal Payment, the
Administrative Agent shall pay to each Funding Agent with respect to a Purchaser, such Purchaser s
Pro Rata Share of the Monthly Principal Payment.

(c) On the date of any Decrease, the Indenture Trustee shall pay to the Administrative Agent,
for the account of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, from the Series 1999-3 Distribution
Account the amount of the Decrease indicated in the request received by the Indenture Trustee
pursuant to  Section 2.5(a) . Upon the receipt of funds from the Indenture Trustee (i) on
the date of any Decrease during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, other than during any Paydown
Period, the Administrative Agent shall pay to each Funding Agent with respect to a Purchaser, such
Purchaser s Pro Rata Share of the amount of such Decrease (including, any amount thereof in excess
of the amount required on such date to reduce the aggregate Purchaser Invested Amounts of all
Non-Extending Purchasers to zero pursuant to clause (ii) of this Section  5A.7(c) ), (ii) on
the date of any Decrease during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period and a Paydown Period, the
Administrative Agent shall pay to each Funding Agent with respect to a Non-Extending Purchaser,  a
pro rata  amount of such Decrease, based on the Purchaser Invested Amounts with respect to such
Non-Extending Purchasers and (iii) on the date of any Decrease during the Series 1999-3
Amortization Period, the Administrative Agent shall pay to each Funding Agent with respect to a
Purchaser, such Purchaser s Pro Rata Share of the amount of such Decrease. Each Purchaser s share
of the amount of any Decrease on any Business Day shall be allocated by such Purchaser first to
reduce the Available CP Funding Amount with respect to such Purchaser and the Available APA Bank
Funding Amount with respect to such Purchaser on such Business Day and then to reduce the portion
of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser allocated to CP Tranches and
Eurodollar Tranches in such order as such Purchaser may select in order to minimize costs payable
pursuant to  Section 7.4 .

39 

Section 5A.8  The Administrator s Failure to Instruct the Indenture Trustee to Make a
Deposit or Payment .

When any payment or deposit hereunder or under any other Transaction Document is required to
be made by the Indenture Trustee at or prior to a specified time, the Administrator shall deliver
any applicable written instructions with respect thereto reasonably in advance of such specified
time. If the Administrator fails to give notice or instructions to make any payment from or
deposit into the Collection Account or any subaccount thereof required to be given by the
Administrator, at the time specified herein or in any other Transaction Document (after giving
effect to applicable grace periods), the Indenture Trustee shall make such payment or deposit into
or from the Collection Account or such subaccount without such notice or instruction from the
Administrator;  provided  that the Administrator, upon request of the Indenture Trustee,
promptly provides the Indenture Trustee with all information necessary to allow the Indenture
Trustee to make such a payment or deposit. In the event that the Indenture Trustee shall take or
refrain from taking action pursuant to this  Section 5A.8 ., the Administrator shall, by 5:00
P.M., New York City time, on any day the Indenture Trustee makes a payment or deposit based on
information or direction from the Administrator, provide (i) written confirmation of any such
direction and (ii) written confirmation of all information used by the Administrator in giving any
such direction.

Section 5A.9  Series 1999-3 Reserve Account .

(a) The Indenture Trustee shall establish and maintain in the name of the Indenture Trustee
for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders an account (the   Series 1999-3
Reserve Account  ), bearing a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein
are held for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders. The Series 1999-3 Reserve
Account shall be an Eligible Deposit Account;  provided  that, if at any time such account is
not an Eligible Deposit Account, then the Indenture Trustee shall, within 30 days of obtaining
knowledge of such ineligibility, establish a new Series 1999-3 Reserve Account that is an Eligible
Deposit Account. If the Indenture Trustee establishes a new Series 1999-3 Reserve Account, it shall
transfer all cash and investments from the non-qualifying Series 1999-3 Reserve Account into the
new Series 1999-3 Reserve Account. Initially, the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account will be
established with The Chase Manhattan Bank.

(b) So long as no Amortization Event has occurred, the Issuer may instruct the institution
maintaining the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account in writing to invest funds on deposit in the Series
1999-3 Reserve Account from time to time in Permitted Investments selected by the Issuer (by
standing instructions or otherwise);  provided ,  however , that any such investment
shall mature not later than the Business Day prior to the Payment Date following the date on which
such funds were received. After the occurrence of an Amortization Event, the Administrative Agent
shall instruct the institution maintaining the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account in writing to invest
funds on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account from time to time in Permitted Investments
selected by the Administrative Agent (by standing instructions or otherwise);  provided ,
 however , that any such investment shall mature not later than the Business Day prior to
the Payment Date following the date on which such funds were received. All such Permitted
Investments will be credited to the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account and any such Permitted
Investments that constitute (i) Physical Property (and that is not either a United States Security

40 

Entitlement or a Security Entitlement) shall be delivered to the Indenture Trustee in accordance
with paragraph (a) of the definition of  Delivery  and shall be held by the Indenture Trustee
pending maturity or disposition; (ii) United States Security Entitlements or Security Entitlements
shall be Controlled by the Indenture Trustee pending maturity or disposition; and (iii)
Uncertificated Securities (and not United States Security Entitlements) shall be delivered to the
Indenture Trustee in accordance with paragraph (b) of the definition of  Delivery  and shall be
maintained by the Indenture Trustee pending maturity or disposition. The Indenture Trustee shall,
at the direction and expense of the Administrator, take such action as is required to maintain the
Indenture Trustee s security interest in the Permitted Investments credited to the Series 1999-3
Reserve Account. In absence of written direction as provided hereunder, funds on deposit in the
Series 1999-3 Reserve Account shall remain uninvested.

(c) All interest and earnings (net of losses and investment expenses) paid on funds on deposit
in the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account shall be deemed to be on deposit and available for
distribution.

(d) If there is a Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Surplus on any Settlement Date, the
Administrator may notify the Indenture Trustee thereof in writing and instruct the Indenture
Trustee to withdraw from the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account and deposit in the Series 1999-3
Preferred Member Distribution Account, and the Indenture Trustee shall withdraw from the Series
1999-3 Reserve Account and deposit in the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account, so
long as no Series 1999-3 Allocated Asset Amount Deficiency exists or would result therefrom, an
amount up to the lesser of (i) such Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Surplus on such Business Day and
(ii) the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount on such Business Day.

(e) Amounts will be withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account in accordance with
 Section 5A.4(b) .

(f) In order to secure and provide for the repayment and payment of the Issuer Obligations
with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Issuer hereby grants a security interest in
and assigns, pledges, grants, transfers and sets over to the Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of
the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, all of the Issuer s right, title and interest in and to the
following (whether now or hereafter existing or acquired): (i) the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account,
including any security entitlement thereto; (ii) all funds on deposit therein from time to time;
(iii) all certificates and instruments, if any, representing or evidencing any or all of the Series
1999-3 Reserve Account or the funds on deposit therein from time to time; (iv) all investments made
at any time and from time to time with monies in the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account, whether
constituting securities, instruments, general intangibles, investment property, financial assets or
other property; (v) all interest, dividends, cash, instruments and other property from time to time
received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for the Series 1999-3
Reserve Account, the funds on deposit therein from time to time or the investments made with such
funds; and (vi) all proceeds of any and all of the foregoing, including, without limitation, cash.
The Indenture Trustee shall possess all right, title and interest in all funds on deposit from
time to time in the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account and in all proceeds thereof and shall be the only
person authorized to originate entitlement orders in respect of the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account.
The Series 1999-3 Reserve Account shall be under the

41 

sole dominion and control of the Indenture Trustee for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor
Noteholders. The Indenture Trustee and the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders shall have no
interest in any amounts withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account and deposited in the
Series 1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account.

(g) On the first Payment Date after the Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date on which the
sum of (a) the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount, (b) the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account
Amount and (c) the amount available to be deposited in the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member
Distribution Account in accordance with  Section 5A.4(c)(xi)  is at least equal to the
aggregate stated liquidation preference of the Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests and on
any Payment Date thereafter, the Indenture Trustee, acting in accordance with the written
instructions of the Administrator shall withdraw from the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account all amounts
on deposit therein for deposit in the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account.

Section 5A. 10  Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account .

(a) The Indenture Trustee shall establish and maintain in the name of the Indenture Trustee
for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders an account (the  Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account ), bearing a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein
are held for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders. The Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account shall be an Eligible Deposit Account;  provided  that, if such account is
not an Eligible Deposit Account, then the Indenture Trustee shall, within 30 days of obtaining
knowledge of such ineligibility, establish a new Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account that is an
Eligible Deposit Account. If the Indenture Trustee establishes a new Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement
Account, it shall transfer all cash and investments from the non-qualifying Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account into the new Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account. Initially, the Series
1999-3 Yield Supplement Account will be established with The Chase Manhattan Bank.

(b) So long as no Amortization Event has occurred, the Issuer may instruct the institution
maintaining the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account in writing to invest funds on deposit in
the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account from time to time in Permitted Investments selected by
the Issuer (by standing instructions or otherwise);  provided ,  however , that any
such investment shall mature not later than the Business Day prior to the Payment Date following
the date on which such funds were received. After the occurrence of an Amortization Event, the
Administrative Agent shall instruct the institution maintaining the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement
Account in writing to invest funds on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account from
time to time in Permitted Investments selected by the Administrative Agent (by standing
instructions or otherwise);  provided ,  however , that any such investment shall
mature not later than the Business Day prior to the Payment Date following the date on which such
funds were received. All such Permitted Investments will be credited to the Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account and any such Permitted Investments that constitute (i) Physical Property (and
that is not either a United States Security Entitlement or a Security Entitlement) shall be
delivered to the Indenture Trustee in accordance with paragraph (a) of the definition of
 Delivery  and shall be held by the Indenture Trustee pending maturity or disposition; (ii) United
States Security Entitlements or Security Entitlements shall be Controlled by the Indenture

42 

Trustee pending maturity or disposition; and (iii) Uncertificated Securities (and not United States
Security Entitlements) shall be delivered to the Indenture Trustee in accordance with paragraph
(b) of the definition of  Delivery  and shall be maintained by the Indenture Trustee pending
maturity or disposition. The Indenture Trustee shall, at the direction and expense of the
Administrator, take such action as is required to maintain the Indenture Trustee s security
interest in the Permitted Investments credited to the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account. In
absence of written direction as provided hereunder, funds on deposit in the Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account shall remain uninvested.

(c) All interest and earnings (net of losses and investment expenses) paid on funds on deposit
in the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account shall be deemed to be on deposit and available for
distribution.

(d) If there is a Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account Surplus on any Settlement Date, the
Administrator may notify the Indenture Trustee thereof in writing and request the Indenture
Trustee to withdraw from the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account and deposit in the Series
1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account, and the Indenture Trustee shall withdraw from the
Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account and deposit in the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member
Distribution Account an amount up to the lesser of (i) such Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account
Surplus on such Business Day and (ii) the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account Amount on such
Business Day.

(e) Amounts will be withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account in accordance
with  Section 5A.4(b) .

(f) In order to secure and provide for the repayment and payment of the Issuer
Obligations with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Issuer hereby grants a security
interest in and assigns, pledges, grants, transfers and sets over to the Indenture Trustee, for the
benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, all of the Issuer s right, title and interest in
and to the following (whether now or hereafter existing or acquired): (i) the Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account, including any security entitlement thereto; (ii) all funds on deposit therein
from time to time; (iii) all certificates and instruments, if any, representing or evidencing any
or all of the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account or the funds on deposit therein from time to
time; (iv) all investments made at any time and from time to time with monies in the Series 1999-3
Yield Supplement Account, whether constituting securities, instruments, general intangibles,
investment property, financial assets or other property; (v) all interest, dividends, cash,
instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in
respect of or in exchange for the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account, the funds on deposit
therein from time to time or the investments made with such funds; and (vi) all proceeds of any and
all of the foregoing, including, without limitation, cash. The Indenture Trustee shall possess all
right, title and interest in all funds on deposit from time to time in the Series 1999-3 Yield
Supplement Account and in all proceeds thereof and shall be the only person authorized to originate
entitlement orders in respect of the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account. The Series 1999-1
Yield Supplement Account shall be under the sole dominion and control of the Indenture Trustee for
the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders. The Indenture Trustee and the Series 1999-3
Investor Noteholders shall have no interest in any

43 

amounts withdrawn from the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account and deposited in the Series
1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution Account.

(g) On the first Payment Date after the Series 1999-3 Note Termination Date on which the
sum of (a) the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account Amount, (b) the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account
Amount and (c) the amount available to be deposited in the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member
Distribution Account in accordance with  Section 5A.4(c)(xi ) is at least equal to the
aggregate stated liquidation preference of the Series 1999-3 Preferred Membership Interests and on
each Payment Date thereafter, the Indenture Trustee, acting in accordance with the written
instructions of the Administrator shall withdraw from the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account
all amounts on deposit therein for deposit in the Series 1999-3 Preferred Member Distribution
Account.

Section 5A.11  Series 1999-3 Distribution Account .

(a) The Indenture Trustee shall establish and maintain in the name of the Indenture Trustee
for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders an account (the   Series 1999-3
Distribution Account  ), bearing a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited
therein are held for the benefit of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders. The Series 1999-3
Distribution Account shall be maintained as an Eligible Deposit Account;  provided  that, if
such account is not an Eligible Deposit Account, then the Indenture Trustee shall, within 30 days
of obtaining knowledge of such ineligibility, establish a new Series 1999-3 Distribution Account
that is an Eligible Deposit Account. If the Indenture Trustee establishes a new Series 1999-3
Distribution Account, it shall transfer all cash and investments from the non-qualifying Series
1999-3 Distribution Account into the new Series 1999-3 Distribution Account. Initially, the Series
1999-3 Distribution Account will be established with The Chase Manhattan Bank.

(b) In order to secure and provide for the repayment and payment of the Issuer Obligations
with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Issuer hereby grants a security interest in
and assigns, pledges, grants, transfers and sets over to the Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of
the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, all of the Issuer s right, title and interest in and to the
following (whether now or hereafter existing or acquired): (i) the Series 1999-3 Distribution
Account, including any security entitlement thereto; (ii) all funds on deposit therein from time to
time; (iii) all certificates and instruments, if any, representing or evidencing any or all of the
Series 1999-3 Distribution Account or the funds on deposit therein from time to time; (iv) all
interest, dividends, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or
otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account, the
funds on deposit therein from time to time; and (v) all proceeds of any and all of the foregoing,
including, without limitation, cash. The Indenture Trustee shall possess all right, title and
interest in all funds on deposit from time to time in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account and in
all proceeds thereof and shall be the only person authorized to originate entitlement orders in
respect of the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account. The Series 1999-3 Distribution Account shall be
under the sole dominion and control of the Indenture Trustee for the benefit of the Series 1999-3
Investor Noteholders.

Section 5A.12  Lease Rate Caps .

44 

(a) The Issuer shall have obtained on the Series 1999-3 Closing Date and shall thereafter
maintain one or more interest rate caps, each from a Series 1999-3 Eligible Counterparty, having,
in the aggregate, a notional amount on the Series 1999-3 Closing Date at least equal to the
aggregate Lease Balance of all Fixed Rate Leases allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio as of the
Series 1999-3 Closing Date, plus, in the case of all such Fixed Rate Leases that are Closed-End
Leases, the aggregate Stated Residual Values of the related Leased Vehicles and on each Payment
Date thereafter at least equal to the aggregate scheduled Lease Balance of all such Fixed Rate
Leases as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding such Payment Date, plus, in
the case of all such Fixed Rate Leases that are Closed-End Leases, the aggregate Stated Residual
Values of the related Leased Vehicles, and an effective strike rate based on the eurodollar rate
set forth therein in effect on the dates set forth therein at the most equal to the weighted
average fixed rate of interest on such Fixed Rate Leases minus 0.80% per annum.

(b) On or prior to the date that any Fixed Rate Lease is allocated to the Lease SUBI Portfolio
on or after the Series 1999-3 Closing Date, the Issuer shall have obtained and shall thereafter
maintain an interest rate cap from a Series 1999-3 Eligible Counterparty having a notional amount
equal to the initial Lease Balance of such Fixed Rate Lease, plus, in the case of a Closed-End
Lease, the Stated Residual Value of the related Leased Vehicle and on each Payment Date thereafter
at least equal to the scheduled Lease Balance of such Fixed Rate Lease as of the last day of the
Monthly Period immediately preceding such Payment Date, plus, in the case of a Closed-End Lease,
the Stated Residual Value of the related Leased Vehicle and an effective strike rate based on the
eurodollar rate set forth therein in effect on the dates set forth therein at the most equal to the
fixed rate of interest on such Fixed Rate Lease minus 0.80% per annum.

(c) On or prior to each Settlement Date, the Issuer shall have obtained and shall thereafter
maintain an interest rate cap from a Series 1999-3 Eligible Counterparty having a notional amount
equal to the aggregate Lease Balance of each Floating Rate Lease allocated to the Lease SUBI that
shall have been converted to a Fixed Rate Lease during the immediately preceding Monthly Period,
plus, in the case of a Closed-End Lease, the Stated Residual Value of the related Leased Vehicle
and on each Payment Date thereafter at least equal to the scheduled Lease Balance of such newly
converted Fixed Rate Lease as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding such
Payment Date, plus, in the case of a Closed-End Lease, the Stated Residual Value of the related
Leased Vehicle and an effective strike rate based on the eurodollar rate set forth therein in
effect on the dates set forth therein at the most equal to the fixed rate of interest on such
newly converted Fixed Rate Lease minus 0.80% per annum.

(d) If the short-term credit rating of any provider of an interest rate cap required to be
obtained and maintained by the Issuer pursuant to this  Section 5A.12  falls below A-1  by
Standard   Poor s or P-l by Moody s or the long-term unsecured credit rating of any such provider
falls below AA- by Standard   Poor s or Aa3 by Moody s, the Issuer shall obtain an equivalent
interest rate cap from a Series 1999-3 Eligible Counterparty within 30 days of such decline in
credit rating unless such provider provides some form of collateral for its obligations under its
interest rate cap and the Rating Agency Condition is satisfied with respect to such arrangement.
The Issuer will not permit any interest rate cap required to be obtained and maintained by the
Issuer pursuant to this  Section 5A.12  to be terminated or transferred in whole

45 

or in part unless a replacement interest rate cap therefor has been provided as described in the
immediately preceding sentence and, after giving effect thereto, the Issuer has the interest rate
caps required to be obtained and maintained by the Issuer pursuant to this  Section 5A.12 .

(e) If the Issuer fails to obtain or maintain any Lease Rate Cap that it is required to
obtain and maintain in accordance with  Sections 5A. 12(a) , (b) or (c) or fails to replace
the Lease Rate Cap of any downgraded provider of an interest rate cap required to be maintained
hereunder in accordance with  Section 5A. 12(d ) or otherwise satisfy the provisions of
Section 5A. 12(d), the Administrative Agent, at the expense of the Issuer, acting at the direction
of the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders, may obtain any such Lease Rate Cap on
commercially reasonable terms. In the alternative, the Administrative Agent, at the expense of the
Issuer, acting at the direction of the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders, may obtain on
commercially reasonable terms any Hedging Instrument that the Administrative Agent reasonably
determines will cover the interest rate exposure that would have been covered by the Lease Rate Cap
that the Issuer shall have failed to obtain or maintain hereunder. Each Series 1999-3 Investor
Noteholder hereby agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent, to the extent not reimbursed by
the Issuer, for any costs or expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with
obtaining any Hedging Instruments in accordance with the terms of this  Section 5A. 12(e) .
Any amounts owing by the Issuer to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders pursuant to this
 Section 5 A. 12(e)  on any Payment Date shall be payable out of funds available pursuant to
 Section 5A.4(c)(xiv)  on such Payment Date.

ARTICLE 4

AMORTIZATION EVENTS

If any one of the following events shall occur with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor
Notes:

(a) the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account shall have become subject to an injunction,
estoppel or other stay or a Lien (other than a Permitted Lien);

(b) the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account shall have become subject to an
injunction, estoppel or other stay or a Lien (other than a Permitted Lien);

(c) a Series 1999-3 Liquid Credit Enhancement Deficiency shall occur and continue for
at least two Business Days;

(d) a Series 1999-3 Allocated Asset Amount Deficiency shall occur and continue for at
least two Business Days;

(e) a Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Deficiency shall occur and continue for at least
two Business Days;

(f) the Three Month Average Charge-Off Ratio with respect to any Settlement Date
exceeds 0.75%;

46 

(g) the Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio with respect to any
Settlement Date exceeds 12.50%;

(h) the Three Month Average Paid-in Advance Loss Ratio with respect to any
Settlement Date exceeds 1.50%;

(i) the Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio with respect to any Settlement
Date exceeds 6.0%;

(j) the failure on the part of the Issuer to declare and pay dividends on the
Series 1999-3 Junior Preferred Membership Interests or the Series 1999-3 Senior Preferred
Membership Interests on any Payment Date;

(k) any Servicer Termination Event shall occur;

(1) any Termination Event shall occur;

(m) an Event of Default with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes shall
occur;

(n) an Insolvency Event shall occur with respect to SPV, the Origination Trust,
ARAC or VMS;

(o) a Lease Rate Cap Event shall occur and continue for two Business Days;

(p) the failure on the part of the Issuer to pay any Commitment Fee due and
payable on any Payment Date which failure continues unremedied for two Business Days;

(q) failure on the part of the Issuer (i) to make any payment or deposit
required by the terms of the Indenture (or within the applicable grace period which shall
not exceed two Business Days after the date such payment or deposit is required to be made)
or (ii) duly to observe or perform in any material respect any covenants or agreements of
the Issuer set forth in the Base Indenture or this Indenture Supplement (other than any
such failure that constitutes a Lease Rate Cap Event), which failure continues unremedied
for a period of 30 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail,
to the Issuer by the Indenture Trustee or the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee by any
Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, written notice specifying such default and requiring it
to be remedied;

(r) any representation or warranty made by the Issuer in the Base Indenture or
this Indenture Supplement, or any information required to be delivered by the Issuer to
the Indenture Trustee shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made
or when delivered, which continues to be incorrect in any material respect for a period of
30 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Issuer
by the Indenture Trustee or the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee by any Series 1999-3
Investor Noteholder, written notice thereof;

47 

(s) the Indenture Trustee shall for any reason cease to have a valid and
perfected first priority security interest in the Collateral or any of VMS, the Issuer or
any Affiliate of either thereof shall so assert;

(t) there shall have been filed against ARAC, VMS, the Origination Trust, SPV
or the Issuer (i) a notice of federal tax Lien from the Internal Revenue Service, (ii) a
notice of Lien from the PBGC under Section 412(n) of the Internal Revenue Code or Section
302(f) of ERISA for a failure to make a required installment or other payment to a plan to
which either of such sections applies or (iii) a notice of any other Lien the existence of
which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business,
operations or financial condition of such Person, and, in each case, 40 days shall have
elapsed without such notice having been effectively withdrawn or such Lien having been
released or discharged;

(u) one or more judgments or decrees shall be entered against the Issuer
involving in the aggregate a liability (not paid or fully covered by insurance) of $100,000
or more and such judgments or decrees shall not have been vacated, discharged, stayed or
bonded pending appeal within 30 days from the entry thereof; or

(v) any of the Transaction Documents shall cease, for any reason, to be in full
force and effect, other than in accordance with its terms;

then, in the case of any event described in clause (q) through (v) above, an Amortization Event
will be deemed to have occurred with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes only, if after
the applicable grace period, either the Indenture Trustee or the Series 1999-3 Required Investor
Noteholders, declare that an Amortization Event has occurred with respect to the Series 1999-3
Investor Notes. In the case of any event described in clauses (a) through (p) above, an
Amortization Event with respect to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes will be deemed to have occurred
without notice or other action on the part of the Indenture Trustee or the Series 1999-3 Investor
Noteholders.

ARTICLE 5

OPTIONAL PREPAYMENT

The Issuer shall have the option to prepay all outstanding Series 1999-3 Investor Notes by
paying an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Prepayment Amount. The Issuer shall give the Indenture
Trustee and the Administrative Agent at least ten Business Days  prior written notice of the date
on which the Issuer intends to exercise such option to prepay (the   Prepayment Date  ). Upon
receipt of any notice of a Prepayment Date from the Issuer, the Administrative Agent shall
promptly notify the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser thereof. Not later than 11:00
A.M., New York City time, on such Prepayment Date, the Issuer shall deposit in the Series 1999-3
Distribution Account an amount equal to the Series 1999-3 Prepayment Amount in immediately
available funds. The funds deposited into the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account will be paid by
the Indenture Trustee to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Series 1999-3 Investor
Noteholders, on such Prepayment Date. Upon the receipt of funds from the Indenture Trustee on any
Prepayment Date, the Administrative Agent shall pay to each Funding

48 

Agent with respect to a Purchaser, the portion of the Series 1999-3 Prepayment Amount owing to
such Purchaser.

ARTICLE 6

SERVICING AND ADMINISTRATOR FEES

Section 6.1  Servicing Fee . A periodic servicing fee (the  Series 1999-3 Servicing
Fee ) shall be payable to the Servicer on each Payment Date for the preceding Monthly Period in an
amount equal to the product of (a) 0.215% per annum (the  Series Servicing Fee Percentage ) times
(b) the daily average of the Series 1999-3 Allocated Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance for such
Monthly Period times (c) the number of days in such Monthly Period  divided  by 365 (or 366, as
applicable) days. The Series 1999-3 Servicing Fee shall be payable to the Servicer on each Payment
Date pursuant to  Section 5A.4(c)(iv) or (vii) .

Section 6.2  Administrator Fee . A periodic fee (the   Series 1999-3 Administrator
Fee  ) shall be payable to the Administrator on each Payment Date for the preceding Monthly
Period in an amount equal to the product of (a) 0.01% per annum times (b) the daily average of the
Series 1999-3 Allocated Adjusted Aggregate Unit Balance for such Monthly Period times (c) the
number of days in such Monthly Period  divided  by 365 (or 366, as applicable) days. The Series
1999-3 Administrator Fee shall be payable to the Administrator on each Payment Date pursuant to
 Section 5A.4(c)(viii) .

ARTICLE 7

CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES

Section 7.1  Illegality . Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if any Change in
Law shall make it unlawful for any Purchaser to make or maintain any portion of the Purchaser
Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser allocated to a Eurodollar Tranche and such Purchaser
shall notify in writing the Administrative Agent, the Funding Agent with respect to such
Purchaser, the Indenture Trustee and the Issuer, then the portion of such Purchaser Invested
Amount allocated to Eurodollar Tranches shall thereafter be calculated by reference to the
Alternate Base Rate. If any such change in the method of calculating interest occurs on a day which
is not the last day of the Eurodollar Period with respect to any Eurodollar Tranche, the Issuer
shall pay to such Purchaser the amounts, if any, as may be required pursuant to  Section
7.4 .

Section 7.2  Increased Costs .

(a) If any Change in Law (except with respect to Taxes which shall be governed by
Section 7.3) shall:

(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar
requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by,
any Affected Party (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO
Rate); or

49 

(ii) impose on any Affected Party or the London interbank market any other
condition affecting the Transaction Documents or the funding of Eurodollar
Tranches by such Affected Party;

and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Affected Party of
making, converting into, continuing or maintaining Eurodollar Tranches (or maintaining its
obligation to do so) or to reduce any amount received or receivable by such Affected Party
hereunder or in connection herewith (whether principal, interest or otherwise), then the Issuer
will pay to such Affected Party such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Affected
Party for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.

(b) If any Affected Party determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has
or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Affected Party s capital or the
capital of any corporation controlling such Affected Party as a consequence of its obligations
hereunder to a level below that which such Affected Party or such corporation could have achieved
but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Affected Party s or such corporation s
policies with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time, the Issuer shall pay to such
Affected Party such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Affected Party for any
such reduction suffered.

(c) A certificate of an Affected Party setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to
compensate such Affected Party as specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 7.2 shall
be delivered to the Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent and the Funding Agent with
respect to such Affected Party) and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The agreements in
this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture Supplement and the Base Indenture and
the payment of all amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.

(d) Failure or delay on the part of an Affected Party to demand compensation pursuant to this
Section 7.2 shall not constitute a waiver of such Affected Party s right to demand such
compensation; provided that the Issuer shall not be required to compensate any Affected Party
pursuant to this Section 7.2 for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days
prior to the date that such Affected Party notifies the Issuer of the Change in Law giving rise to
such increased costs or reductions and of such Affected Party s intention to claim compensation
therefor; provided further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or
reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include
the period of retroactive effect thereof.

Section 7.3  Taxes .

(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Issuer hereunder
shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes;
provided that if the Issuer shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from
such payments, then (i) subject to Section 7.3(c) below, the sum payable shall be increased as
necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to
additional sums payable under this Section 7.3) the recipient receives an amount equal to the sum
that it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Issuer

50 

shall make such deductions and (iii) the Issuer shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant
Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.

(b) In addition, the Issuer shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority
in accordance with applicable law.

(c) The Issuer shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Funding Agent, each Program
Support Provider and each Purchaser within the later of 10 days after written demand therefor and
the Payment Date next following such demand for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other
Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Funding Agent, such Program Support Provider or such
Purchaser on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Issuer
hereunder or under any other Transaction Document (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes
imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section 7.3) and any
penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or
not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the
relevant Governmental Authority; provided that no Person shall be indemnified pursuant to this
Section 7.3(c) or required to pay additional amounts under the proviso of Section 7.3(a) to the
extent that the reason for such indemnification results from the failure by such Person to comply
with the provisions of Section 7.3(e) or (g). A certificate as to the amount of such payment or
liability delivered to the Issuer by the Administrative Agent, any Funding Agent, any Program
Support Provider or any Purchaser shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Any payments made by
the Issuer pursuant to this Section 7.3 shall be made solely from funds available therefor
pursuant to Section 5A.4(c), shall be non-recourse other than with respect to such funds, and shall
not constitute a claim against the Issuer to the extent that insufficient funds exist to make such
payment. The agreements in this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture Supplement
and the Base Indenture and the payment of all amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.

(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Issuer
to a Governmental Authority, the Issuer shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a
certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy
of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to
the Administrative Agent.

(e) The Administrative Agent, each Funding Agent, each Purchaser and each Program Support
Provider, if entitled to an exemption from or reduction of an Indemnified Tax or Other Tax with
respect to payments made under this Indenture Supplement and the Base Indenture shall (to the
extent legally able to do so) deliver to the Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) such
properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law and reasonably requested
by the Issuer on the later of (i) 30 Business Days after such request is made and the applicable
forms are provided to the Administrative Agent, such Funding Agent, such Purchaser or such Program
Support Provider or (ii) 30 Business Days before prescribed by applicable law as will permit such
payments to be made without withholding or with an exemption from or reduction of Indemnified
Taxes or Other Taxes.

(f) If the Administrative Agent, any Funding Agent, any Program Support Provider or any
Purchaser receives a refund solely in respect of Indemnified Taxes or Other

51 

Taxes, it shall pay over such refund to the Issuer to the extent that it has already received
indemnity payments or additional amounts pursuant to this Section 7.3 with respect to such
Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to the refund, net of all out-of-pocket expenses and
without interest (other than interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to
such refund); provided, however, that the Issuer shall, upon request of the Administrative Agent,
such Funding Agent, such Program Support Provider or such Purchaser, repay such refund (plus
interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative
Agent, such Funding Agent, such Program Support Provider or such Purchaser if the Administrative
Agent, such Funding Agent, such Program Support Provider or such Purchaser is required to repay
such refund to such Governmental Authority. Nothing contained herein shall require the
Administrative Agent, any Funding Agent, any Program Support Provider or any Purchaser to make its
tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) available
to the Issuer or any other Person.

(g) If any Purchaser is an entity that is not incorporated or organized under the laws
of the United States of America or a state thereof or the District of Columbia, such Purchaser
shall:

(i) upon or prior to becoming a party to any Transaction Document, deliver to
the Issuer and the Administrative Agent (A) two duly completed copies of IRS Form 1001 or
Form 4224, or successor applicable forms, as the case may be, and (B) IRS Form W-8 or W-9,
or successor applicable form, as the case may be;

(ii) deliver to the Issuer and the Administrative Agent two (2) further copies
of any such form or certification on or before the date that any such form or certification
expires or becomes obsolete and after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in
the most recent form previously delivered by it to the Issuer; and

(iii) obtain such extensions of time for filing and completing such forms or
certifications as may be reasonably be requested by the Issuer and the Administrative
Agent;

unless, in any such case, any change in treaty, law or regulation has occurred after the Series
1999-3 Closing Date (or, if later, the date such Purchaser becomes a party to any Transaction
Document) and prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which
renders the relevant form inapplicable or which would prevent such Purchaser from duly completing
and delivering the relevant form with respect to it, and such Purchaser so advises the Issuer and
the Administrative Agent. Each Purchaser so organized shall certify (i) in the case of an IRS Form
1001 or IRS Form 4224, or successor applicable forms, that it is entitled to receive payments under
the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes and the other Transaction Documents without deduction or
withholding of any United States federal income taxes and (ii) in the case of an IRS Form W-8 or
IRS Form W-9, or successor applicable forms, that it is entitled to an exemption from United
States backup withholding tax with respect to payments of interest under the Series 1999-3 Investor
Notes.

(h) If a beneficial or equity owner of a Purchaser (instead of the Purchaser itself) is
required under United States federal income tax law or the terms of a relevant treaty to

52 

provide IRS Form 1001, IRS Form 4224, IRS Form W-8 or IRS Form W-9, or any successor applicable
forms, as the case may be, in order to claim an exemption from withholding of United Stated federal
income taxes or backup withholding taxes, then each such beneficial owner or equity owner shall be
considered to be a Purchaser for purposes of Section 7.3 (g).

Section 7.4  Break Funding Payments . The Issuer agrees to indemnify each Purchaser and
to hold each Purchaser harmless from any loss or expense which such Purchaser may sustain or incur
as a consequence of (a) default by the Issuer in making a borrowing of, conversion into or
continuation of a CP Tranche or a Eurodollar Tranche after the Issuer has given irrevocable notice
requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture Supplement, or (b) default
by the Issuer in making any prepayment in connection with a Decrease after the Issuer has given
irrevocable notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.5 or (c) the making of a
prepayment of a CP Tranche or a Eurodollar Tranche (including, without limitation, any Decrease)
prior to the termination of the CP Rate Period for such CP Tranche or the Eurodollar Period for
such Eurodollar Tranche, as the case may be. Such indemnification shall include an amount
determined by the Funding Agent with respect to such Purchaser and shall equal either (x) the
excess, if any, of (i) such Purchaser s cost of funding the amount so prepaid or not so borrowed,
converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to
borrow, convert or continue to the last day of the CP Rate Period or the Eurodollar Period (or in
the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the CP Rate Period or the Eurodollar Period
that would have commenced on the date of such prepayment or of such failure), as the case may be,
over (ii) the amount of interest earned by such Purchaser upon redeployment of an amount of funds
equal to the amount prepaid or not borrowed, converted or continued for a comparable period or (y)
if such Purchaser is able to terminate the funding source before its scheduled maturity, any costs
associated with such termination; provided that any payments made by the Issuer pursuant to this
subsection shall be made solely from funds available therefor pursuant to Section 5A.4(c), shall be
non-recourse other than with respect to such funds, and shall not constitute a claim against the
Issuer to the extent that such funds are insufficient to make such payment. This covenant shall
survive the termination of this Indenture Supplement and the Base Indenture and the payment of all
amounts payable hereunder and thereunder. A certificate as to any additional amounts payable
pursuant to the foregoing sentence submitted by any Funding Agent on behalf of a Purchaser to the
Issuer shall be conclusive absent manifest error.

Section 7.5  Alternate Rate of Interest . If prior to the commencement of any Eurodollar
Period:

(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive
absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the
Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Eurodollar Period, or

(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by any Purchaser that the Adjusted LIBO Rate
for such Eurodollar Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such
Purchaser of making or maintaining the Eurodollar Tranches during such Eurodollar Period,

53 

 then the Administrative Agent shall promptly give telecopy or telephonic notice thereof to the
Issuer and the Indenture Trustee, whereupon until the Administrative Agent notifies the Issuer and
the Indenture Trustee that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, the
Available APA Bank Funding Amount with respect to any Purchaser (in the case of clause (a) above)
or with respect to such Purchaser (in the case of clause (b) above) shall not be allocated to any
Eurodollar Tranche.

Section 7.6  Mitigation Obligations . If an Affected Party requests compensation under
 Section 7.2 , or if the Issuer is required to pay any additional amount to any Purchaser or
any Governmental Authority for the account of any Purchaser pursuant to  Section 7.3 , then,
upon written notice from the Issuer, such Affected Party or Purchaser, as the case may be, shall
use commercially reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking
its obligations hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its
offices, branches or affiliates, which pays a price for such assignment which is acceptable to such
Purchaser and its assignee, in the judgment of such Affected Party or Purchaser, such designation
or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to  Section 7.2  or
 7.3,  as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Affected Party or
Purchaser to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such
Affected Party or Purchaser. The Issuer hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses
incurred by such Affected Party or Purchaser in connection with any such designation or
assignment.

ARTICLE 8

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES, COVENANTS

Section 8.1  Representations and Warranties of the Issuer and VMS . The Issuer and VMS
each hereby represents and warrants to the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative Agent, each
Funding Agent and each Purchaser that:

(a) each and every of their respective representations and warranties contained in
the Transaction Documents is true and correct as of the Series 1999-3 Closing Date, as of
the Series 1999-3 Initial Funding Date and as of the date of each Increase; and

(b) as of the Series 1999-3 Closing Date, they have not engaged, in connection with
the offering of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, in any form of general solicitation or
general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) under the Securities Act.

Section 8.2  Covenants of the Issuer and VMS . The Issuer and VMS hereby agree, in
addition to their obligations hereunder, that:

(a) they shall observe in all material respects each and every of their respective
covenants (both affirmative and negative) contained in the Base Indenture and all other
Transaction Documents to which each is a party;

(b) they will promptly notify each Purchaser in the event they discover or determine
that any of their respective computer applications (including those of their

54 

suppliers or vendors) that is material to the performance of their obligations under the
Transaction Documents will not be Year 2000 Compliant on a timely basis;

(c) they shall afford each Funding Agent with respect to a Purchaser, the Indenture
Trustee or any representatives of any such Funding Agent or the Indenture Trustee access to
all records relating to the SUB1 Certificates, the Sold Units and the Fleet Receivables at
any reasonable time during regular business hours, upon reasonable prior notice (and
without prior notice if an Amortization Event has occurred), for purposes of inspection
and shall permit such Funding Agent, the Indenture Trustee or any representative of such
Funding Agent or the Indenture Trustee to visit any of the Issuer s or VMS s, as the case
may be, offices or properties during regular business hours and as often as may reasonably
be desired to discuss the business, operations, properties, financial and other conditions
of the Issuer or VMS with their respective officers and employees and with their
independent certified public accountants; and

(d) they shall not take any action, nor permit SPV to take any action, requiring the
satisfaction of the Rating Agency Condition pursuant to any Transaction Document without
the prior written consent of the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders.

Section 8.3  Representations and Warranties of VMS With Respect to Year 2000
Compliance . VMS hereby represents and warrants to the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative
Agent, each Funding Agent and each Purchaser that:

(a) It has or caused to be (i) initiated a review and assessment of all areas within
its business and operations (including those affected by its suppliers, vendors and
customers) that could be materially adversely affected by the  Year 2000 Problem  (that is
the risk that computer applications used by VMS (or its suppliers, vendors and customers)
may be unable to recognize and perform properly material date-sensitive functions involving
certain dates prior to, and any date after, January 1, 2000), (ii) developed a plan and
time line addressing the Year 2000 Problem in all material respects on a timely basis, and
(iii) to date, implemented that plan in all material respects in accordance with that
timetable;

(b) Based on the foregoing, it believes that all computer applications (including
those of its suppliers, vendors and customers) that are material to the performance of its
obligations under the Transaction Documents are Year 2000 Compliant, except to the extent
that a failure to be so could not reasonably be expected to (a) have a Material Adverse
Effect on the Issuer or the transactions documented under the Transaction Documents, or (b)
to result in an Amortization Event;

(c) It (i) has or caused to be completed a review and assessment of all material
computer applications (including, but not limited to those of its suppliers, vendors,
customers and any third party servicers), which are related to or involved in the
origination, collection, management or servicing of the Leases and the Fleet Receivables
(the  Lease Systems ) and (ii) has or caused to be determined that the Lease Systems are
Year 2000 Compliant or will be Year 2000 Compliant in all material respects on a timely
basis; and

55 

(d) The costs of all assessment, remediation, testing and integration related to VMS 
plan for becoming Year 2000 Compliant will not have a material adverse effect on the
business or operations of VMS.

Section 8.4  Covenants of the Administrator . The Administrator hereby agrees that:

(a) it shall provide to the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative Agent and each
Funding Agent, on each Determination Date, a Monthly Settlement Statement, substantially in
the form of Exhibit C, setting forth as of the last day of the most recent Monthly Period
and for such Monthly Period the information set forth therein;

(b) it shall provide to the Administrative Agent simultaneously with delivery to the
Indenture Trustee, all reports, notices, certificates, statements and other documents
required to be delivered to the Indenture Trustee pursuant to the Base Indenture and the
other Transaction Documents, and furnish to the Administrative Agent promptly after receipt
thereof a copy of each notice, demand or other material communication (excluding routine
communications) received by or on behalf of the Issuer or the Administrator with respect to
the Transaction Documents. The Administrative Agent shall distribute to the Funding Agents
copies of all reports, notices, certificates, statements and other documents delivered to
it pursuant to this Section 8.4(b);

(c) on or prior to any Series Closing Date, it shall provide to each Funding Agent a
copy of the Indenture Supplement relating to the Series of Investor Notes being issued on
such Series Closing Date;

(d) it shall provide each Funding Agent with prompt written notice of (i) the
downgrade by any Rating Agency of the rating assigned by such Rating Agency to any Series
of Outstanding Investor Notes or the determination by any Rating Agency to put the rating
assigned by such Rating Agency to any Series of Outstanding Investor Notes on a watch list
and (ii) the occurrence of an Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event with
respect to any Series of Outstanding Investor Notes; and

(e) it shall provide to each Funding Agent copies of all reports relating to the
Series 1999-3 Investor Notes delivered to the Rating Agencies.

Section 8.5  Obligations Unaffected . The obligations of the Issuer and the
Administrator to the Funding Agent and the Purchasers under this Indenture Supplement shall not be
affected by reason of any invalidity, illegality or irregularity of any of the SUBI Certificates,
the Sold Units or the Fleet Receivables.

ARTICLE 9

CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

Section 9.1  Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Indenture Supplement . This
Indenture Supplement shall become effective on the date (the  Effective Date ) on which the
following conditions precedent have been satisfied:

56 

(a)
 Documents . The Administrative Agent shall have received an original copy for
each CP Conduit Purchaser and the Funding Agent and the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit
Purchaser, each executed and delivered in form and substance satisfactory to it of (i) the Base
Indenture, executed by a duly authorized officer of each of the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee,
(ii) the Transfer Agreement, executed by a duly authorized officer of each of the Issuer and SPV,
(iii) this Indenture Supplement, executed by a duly authorized officer of each of the Issuer, the
Administrator, the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative Agent, the Funding Agents, the CP Conduit
Purchasers and the APA Banks, (iv) the Administration Agreement, executed by a duly authorized
officer of each of the Issuer, SPV and the Administrator, (vi) each of the Origination Trust
Documents, executed by duly authorized officers of each of the parties thereto and (vii) any other
Transaction Documents to be executed in connection with Series 1999-3, each duly executed by the
parties thereto.

(b)  Corporate Documents; Proceedings of the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the
Origination Trust and the Servicer . The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a copy
for each CP Conduit Purchaser and the Funding Agent and the APA Bank with respect to such CP
Conduit Purchaser, from the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust, VMS and the
Servicer true and complete copies of:

(i) to the extent applicable, the certificate of incorporation or
certificate of formation, including all amendments thereto, of such Person,
certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of State or other appropriate
authority of the state of incorporation or organization, as the case may be, and a
certificate of compliance, of status or of good standing, as and to the extent
applicable, of each such Person as of a recent date, from the Secretary of State or
other appropriate authority of such jurisdiction;

(ii) a certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each of
the Administrator, SPV and the Servicer, dated the Effective Date and certifying
(A) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of the limited liability
company agreement of such Person, as in effect on the Effective Date and at all
times since a date prior to the date of the resolutions described in clause (B)
below, (B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of the resolutions, in
form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Funding Agent, of the Board of
Directors of such Person or committees thereof authorizing the execution, delivery
and performance of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and the
transactions contemplated thereby, and that such resolutions have not been amended,
modified, revoked or rescinded and are in full force and effect, (C) that the
certificate of incorporation of such Person has not been amended since the date of
the last amendment thereto shown on the certificate of good standing (or its
equivalent) furnished pursuant to clause (i) above and (D) as to the incumbency
and specimen signature of each officer or authorized signatory executing any
Transaction Documents or any other document delivered in connection herewith or
therewith on behalf of such Person;

(iii) a certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each of
the Common Member and the Origination Trust Trustee, dated the Effective Date

57 

and certifying as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer or
authorized signatory executing any Transaction Documents or any other document
delivered in connection herewith or therewith on behalf of such Person; and

(iv) a certificate of another officer as to the incumbency and specimen
signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary executing the certificate
pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii) above.

(c)  Good Standing Certificates . The Administrative Agent shall have received copies
of certificates of compliance, of status or of good standing, dated as of a recent date, from the
Secretary of State or other appropriate authority of such jurisdiction, with respect to the
Issuer, the Administrator, SPV and the Origination Trust in each State where the ownership, lease
or operation of property or the conduct of business requires it to qualify as a foreign
corporation, except where the failure to so qualify would not have a material adverse effect on
the business, operations, properties or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Issuer, the
Administrator, SPV or the Origination Trust, as the case may be.

(d)  Consents, Licenses, Approvals, Etc.  The Administrative Agent shall have received,
with a counterpart for each CP Conduit Purchaser and the Funding Agent and the APA Bank with
respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, certificates dated the date hereof of an Authorized Officer
of the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust and the Servicer either (i) attaching
copies of all material consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution,
delivery and performance by the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust and the
Servicer of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and the validity and enforceability of
the Transaction Documents to which it is a party against the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the
Origination Trust and the Servicer, respectively, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall
be in full force and effect or (ii) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so
required.

(e)  No Litigation . The Administrative Agent shall have received confirmation that
there is no pending or, to their knowledge after due inquiry, threatened action or proceeding
affecting the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust, the Servicer, ARAC or any of
its Subsidiaries before any Governmental Authority that could reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect.

(f)  Lien Searches . The Administrative Agent shall have received a written search
report listing all effective financing statements that name VMS, the Origination Trust, SPV or the
Issuer as debtor or assignor and that are filed in the jurisdictions in which filings were made
pursuant to paragraph (h) below and in any other jurisdictions that the Administrative Agent
determines are necessary or appropriate, together with copies of such financing statements (none of
which, except for those described in paragraph (h) below shall cover any portion of the Series
1999-3 Collateral), and tax and judgment lien searches showing no such liens that are not permitted
by the Transaction Documents.

(g)  UCC Certificate . The Administrative Agent shall have received from each of VMS,
the Origination Trust, SPV and the Issuer a certificate, substantially in the form of

58 

Exhibit D, completed in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, duly executed by an
Authorized Officer of each of VMS, the Origination Trust, SPV and the Issuer and dated the Series
1999-3 Closing Date.

(h)  Filings, Registrations and Recordings . The SUBI Certificates shall have been
registered in the name of the Issuer and delivered to the Indenture Trustee, endorsed in blank,
and any documents (including, without limitation, financing statements) required to be filed in
order (i) to create, in favor of the Indenture Trustee, a perfected security interest in the
Collateral with respect to which a security interest may be perfected by a filing under the UCC or
other comparable statute, (ii) to create in favor of the Issuer a perfected ownership/security
interest in the Issuer Assets under the Transfer Agreement with respect to which a
ownership/security interest may be perfected by filing under the UCC or other comparable statute,
(iii) to create in favor of the Origination Trust perfected ownership/security interest in the
assets transferred thereto pursuant to the Contribution Agreement and any assets transferred to
the Origination Trust by VMS or any of its affiliates within a year of the Initial Closing Date
with respect to which a ownership/security interest may be perfected by filing under the UCC or
other comparable statute, (iv) to create in favor of SPV a perfected ownership interest in the
Fleet Receivables under the Receivable Purchase Agreement and the assets transferred to SPV
pursuant to the Asset Sale Agreement and (v) to create in favor of the Indenture Trustee a
perfected security interest in the Series 1999-3 Collateral with respect to which a security
interest may be perfected by a filing under the UCC or other comparable statute shall, in each
case, have been properly prepared and executed for immediate filing in each office in each
jurisdiction listed in the UCC Certificate referred to in paragraph (g) above, and such filings
are the only filings required in order to perfect the security interest of the Indenture Trustee
in the Collateral, the transfer of the Issuer Assets to the Issuer pursuant to the Transfer
Agreement, the transfer of the Fleet Receivables, Leases, Vehicles and other assets to the
Origination Trust pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, the transfer of the Fleet Receivables to
SPV pursuant to the Receivable Purchase Agreement and of certain other assets to SPV pursuant to
the Asset Sale Agreement, the transfer of the Series 1999-3 Collateral to the Indenture Trustee,
as the case may be. The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence reasonably satisfactory
to it of each such filing, registration or recordation and reasonably satisfactory evidence of the
payment of any necessary fee, tax or expense relating thereto.

(i)  Legal Opinions . The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a
counterpart addressed to each CP Conduit Purchaser and the Funding Agent, the Program Support
Provider and the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser and the Indenture Trustee,
opinions of counsel to the Issuer and the Administrator, dated the Series 1999- 3 Closing Date, as
to corporate, due organization of the Origination Trust and the Issuer, bankruptcy ( true sale  and
 non-substantive consolidation ), perfection and priority of security interests in the Series
1999-3 Collateral, creation and perfection of the security interests in the Issuer Assets, the SUBI
Certificates and the Sold Units and the Fleet Receivables, the characterization of the Series
1999-3 Investor Notes as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the characterization of the
Issuer not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S.
federal income tax purposes and other matters, in each case, in form and substance acceptable to
the addressees thereof and their respective counsel.

59 

(j)  Fees and Expenses . Each Funding Agent with respect to a CP Conduit
Purchaser shall have received payment of all fees, out-of-pocket expenses and other amounts due
and payable to such CP Conduit Purchaser or the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser
on or befor e the Effective Date. 

(k)  Establishment of Accounts . The Administrative Agent shall have received
evidence reasonably satisfactory to it that the Collection Account (including the Series 1999-3
Subaccounts), the Series 1999-3 Reserve Account, the Series 1999-3 Yield Supplement Account and
the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account shall have been established in accordance with the terms
and provisions of the Indenture.

(1)  Lease Rate Caps . The Indenture Trustee shall have received copies of the
Lease Rate Caps duly executed by the parties thereto satisfying the requirements of Section 5A.12
on the Series 1999-3 Closing Date.

(m)  Material Adverse Change . No material adverse change shall have occurred
with respect to the business, operations, property or condition (financial or otherwise) of ARAC
and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole since June 30, 1999.

(n)  Opinion . The Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of counsel
to the Indenture Trustee as to the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Indenture
Trustee of this Indenture Supplement and the due execution, authentication and delivery by the
Indenture Trustee of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes.

(o)  Consent to Service of Process . The Administrative Agent shall have received
an instrument confirming acceptance of the appointment by the Issuer of CT Corporation located at
1633 Broadway, New York, New York 10019 as the authorized agent upon whom process may be served in
any action arising out of or based upon this Indenture Supplement or any other Transaction
Document to which the Issuer is a party that may be instituted in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York.

(p)  Insurance . The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence in form
and substance reasonably satisfactory to it that all of the requirements of Section 7.7 of the
Series 1999-3 SUBI Servicing Supplement shall have been satisfied.

(q)  Risk Assessment Letters . The Administrative Agent shall have received a
letter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, from each of Standard  
Poor s and Moody s assessing the credit risk assigned by Standard   Poor s and Moody s,
respectively, to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes.

ARTICLE 10

THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT

Section 10.1  Appointment . Each of the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the
Funding Agents hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Administrative Agent as the agent of
such Person under this Indenture Supplement and irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent, in
such capacity, to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of

60 

this Indenture Supplement and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly
delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of this Indenture Supplement, together with such
other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
elsewhere in this Indenture Supplement, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or
responsibilities except those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary relationship with any
CP Conduit Purchaser, any APA Bank or any Funding Agent, and no implied covenants, functions,
responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Indenture Supplement
or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent. In performing its functions and duties
hereunder, the Administrative Agent shall act solely as the agent of the CP Conduit Purchasers, the
APA Banks and the Funding Agents, and the Administrative Agent does not assume, nor shall be deemed
to have assumed, any obligation or relationship of trust or agency with or for any such Person.

Section 10.2  Delegation of Duties . The Administrative Agent may execute any of its
duties under this Indenture Supplement by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be
entitled to advice of counsel (who may be counsel for the Issuer or the Administrator), independent
public accountants and other experts selected by it concerning all matters pertaining to such
duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any
agents or attorneys in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.

Section 10.3  Exculpatory Provisions . Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its
officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates shall be (i) liable for
any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection with
the Base Indenture or this Indenture Supplement (x) with the consent or at the request of the
Purchasers or (y) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct or (ii)
responsible in any manner to any of the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks or the Funding Agents
for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by the Issuer, the Administrator
or any officer thereof contained in this Indenture Supplement or any other Transaction Document or
in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received
by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with, this Indenture Supplement or any other
Transaction Document or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or
sufficiency of this Indenture Supplement, any other Transaction Document, the SUBI Certificates,
the Sold Units or the Fleet Receivables or for any failure of any of the Issuer, the Administrator,
SPV, the Origination Trust or the Servicer to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. The
Administrative Agent shall not be under any obligation to any CP Conduit Purchaser, any APA Bank
or any Funding Agent to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the
agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Indenture Supplement, any other Transaction
Document, the SUBI Certificates, the Sold Units or the Fleet Receivables or to inspect the
properties, books or records of the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust or the
Servicer.

Section 10.4  Reliance by Administrative Agent . The Administrative Agent shall be
entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any writing, resolution, notice,
consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or
other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed,
sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel
(including, without limitation, counsel to the Issuer or the Administrator), independent

61 

accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent and shall not be liable for any
action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the advice of such
counsel, accountants or experts. The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the registered holder
of any Series 1999-3 Investor Note as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of
assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under
this Indenture Supplement or any other Transaction Document unless it shall first receive such
advice or concurrence of the Funding Agents, on behalf of the Purchasers, as it deems appropriate
or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Funding Agents against any and all
liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any
such action. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in
refraining from acting, under this Indenture Supplement and the other Transaction Documents in
accordance with a request of the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders (unless, in the case
of any action relating to the giving of consent hereunder, the giving of such consent requires the
consent of all Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders), and such request and any action taken or
failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks
and the Funding Agents.

Section 10.5  Notice of Administrator Default or Amortization Event or Potential
Amortization Event . The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice
of the occurrence of any Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event, any Event of Default
or Default, any Termination Event or any Servicer Default unless the Administrative Agent has
received notice from a CP Conduit Purchaser, an APA Bank, a Funding Agent, the Issuer, the
Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust or the Servicer referring to the Agreement or this
Indenture Supplement, describing such Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event, Event of
Default or Default, Termination Event or Servicer Default or and stating that such notice is a
 notice of an Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event,   notice of an Event of Default
or Default,   notice of a Termination Event  or  notice of a Servicer Default , as the case may
be. In the event that the Administrative Agent receives such a notice, the Administrative Agent
shall give notice thereof to the Funding Agents, the Indenture Trustee, the Issuer and the
Administrator. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such event as shall
be reasonably directed by the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders,  provided  that
unless and until the Administrative Agent shall have received such directions, the Administrative
Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action,
with respect to such event as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the Purchasers.

Section 10.6  Non-Reliance on the Administrative Agent and Other Purchasers . Each of
the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents expressly acknowledges that neither
the Administrative Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact
or Affiliates has made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by the
Administrative Agent hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of the Issuer, shall
be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the Administrative Agent to any such
Person. Each of the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents represents to the
Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent
or any other CP Conduit Purchaser, APA Bank or Funding Agent and based on such documents and
information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal

62 

of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and
creditworthiness of the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust and the Servicer and
made its own decision to enter into this Indenture Supplement. Each of the CP Conduit Purchasers,
the APA Banks and the Funding Agents also represents that it will, independently and without
reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other CP Conduit Purchaser, APA Bank or Funding
Agent, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time,
continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action
under this Indenture Supplement and the other Transaction Documents, and to make such
investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property,
financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the
Origination Trust and the Servicer. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly
required to be furnished to the Funding Agents by the Administrative Agent hereunder, the
Administrative Agent shall have no duty or responsibility to provide any CP Conduit Purchaser, any
APA Bank or any Funding Agent with any credit or other information concerning the business,
operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or creditworthiness of the
Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust or the Servicer which may come into the
possession of the Administrative Agent or any of its officers, directors, employees, agents,
attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates.

Section 10.7  Indemnification . Each of the APA Banks and the Funding Agents agrees to
indemnify the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the
Issuer and the Administrator and without limiting the obligation of the Issuer and the
Administrator to do so), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages,
penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever which
may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in any way
relating to or arising out of this Indenture Supplement, any of the other Transaction Documents or
any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated
hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent under or in connection
with any of the foregoing;  provided  that no APA Bank or Funding Agent shall be liable for
the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions,
judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting solely from the Administrative
Agent s gross negligence or willful misconduct. The agreements in this Section shall survive the
payment of all amounts payable hereunder.

Section 10.8  The Administrative Agent in Its Individual Capacity . The Administrative
Agent and its Affiliates may make loans to, accept deposits from and generally engage in any kind
of business with the Issuer, the Administrator or any of their Affiliates as though the
Administrative Agent were not the Administrative Agent hereunder. With respect to any Series 1999-3
Investor Note held by the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent shall have the same
rights and powers under this Indenture Supplement and the other Transaction Documents as any
Purchaser and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and the terms
 APA Bank,  and  Purchaser  shall include the Administrative Agent in its individual capacity.

Section 10.9  Resignation of Administrative Agent; Successor Administrative Agent . The
Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent at any time by giving 30

63 

days  notice to the Funding Agents, the Indenture Trustee, the Issuer and the Administrator. The
Administrative Agent may be removed at any time by a resolution of the Series 1999-3 Required
Investor Noteholders, removing the Administrative Agent and appointing from among the Funding
Agents a successor administrative agent, which successor administrative agent shall be approved by
the Issuer and the Administrator (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), delivered to
the Administrative Agent, the Indenture Trustee and the Administrator. If Chase shall resign as
Administrative Agent under this Indenture Supplement, then the Series 1999-3 Required Investor
Noteholders shall promptly appoint a successor administrative agent from among the Funding Agents,
which successor administrative agent shall be approved by the Issuer and the Administrator (which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld). If no successor administrative agent is appointed
prior to the effective date of the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Administrative
Agent may appoint, after consulting with the Funding Agents, the Issuer and the Administrator, a
successor agent from among the Funding Agents. If no successor administrative agent has accepted
appointment as Administrative Agent by the date which is 30 days following a retiring
Administrative Agent s notice of resignation, the retiring Administrative Agent s resignation shall
nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Administrator shall assume and perform all of the
duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Series 1999-3 Required
Investor Noteholders appoint a successor agent as provided for above. Effective upon the
appointment of a successor administrative agent, such successor administrative agent shall succeed
to the rights, powers and duties of the Administrative Agent, and the term  Administrative Agent 
shall mean such successor administrative agent effective upon such appointment and approval, and
the former Administrative Agent s rights, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be
terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of such former Administrative
Agent or any of the parties to this Indenture Supplement. After any retiring Administrative
Agent s resignation as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Article 10 shall inure to its
benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent
under this Indenture Supplement.

ARTICLE 11

MISCELLANEOUS

Section 11.1  Ratification of Indenture . As Indenture Supplemented by this Indenture
Supplement, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and the Indenture as so
Indenture Supplemented by this Indenture Supplement shall be read, taken and construed as one and
the same instrument.

Section 11.2  Governing Law . THIS INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS AND
REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.

Section 11.3  Further Assurances . Each of the Issuer, the Administrator and the
Indenture Trustee agrees, from time to time, to do and perform any and all acts and to execute any
and all further instruments required or reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent

64 

more fully to effect the purposes of this Indenture Supplement and the sale of the Series 1999-3
Investor Notes hereunder, including, without limitation, in the case of the Issuer and the
Administrator, the execution of any financing or registration statements or similar documents or
notices or continuation statements relating to the Series 1999-3 Collateral for filing or
registration under the provisions of the UCC or similar legislation of any applicable jurisdiction.

Section 11.4  Payments . Each payment to be made hereunder shall be made on the
required payment date in lawful money of the United States and in immediately available funds, if
to a Purchaser, at the office of the Funding Agent with respect to such Purchaser set forth in
 Section 11.9 .

Section 11.5  Costs and Expenses . The Administrator agrees to pay on demand all
reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent (including, without
limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent) and of each
Purchaser (including in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of this Indenture
Supplement the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to such Purchaser) in connection with
(i) the preparation, execution, delivery and administration (including periodic auditing and any
requested amendments, waivers or consents) of this Indenture Supplement, the Indenture and the
other Transaction Documents and amendments or waivers of any such documents and (ii) the
enforcement by the Administrative Agent or any Funding Agent of the obligations and liabilities of
the Issuer, the Administrator, SPV, the Origination Trust, VMS and the Servicer under the
Indenture, this Indenture Supplement, the other Transaction Documents or any related document and
all costs and expenses, if any (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with
the enforcement of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents.

Section 11.6  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies . No failure to exercise and no delay in
exercising, on the part of the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative Agent, any Funding Agent, any
CP Conduit Purchaser or any APA Bank, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate
as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or
privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other
right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are
cumulative and not exhaustive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.

Section 11.7  Amendments , (a) This Indenture Supplement may be amended in writing from
time to time by the Administrator, the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee, with the consent of the
Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, without
the consent of each CP Conduit Purchaser and each APA Bank, no such amendment shall:

(i) reduce the percentage of Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders whose
consent is required to take any particular action hereunder;

(ii) (A) extend the due date for, or reduce the amount of any scheduled
repayment or prepayment of principal of or interest on any Series 1999-3 Investor Note (or
reduce the principal amount of or rate of interest on any Series 1999-3 Investor Note);

65 

(B) extend the due date for, or reduce the amount of any Commitment Fee payable hereunder;
(C) change the calculation of any Article 7 Costs or other amounts payable by the Issuer to
the CP Conduit Purchasers or APA Banks hereunder; (D) modify  Section 5A.4(c) ; (E)
approve the assignment or transfer by the Issuer of any of its rights or obligations
hereunder or under any other Transaction Document to which it is a party except pursuant to
the express terms hereof or thereof; (F) release any obligor under any Transaction Document
to which it is a party except pursuant to the express terms of such Transaction Document;
 provided ,  however , that the Liens on Vehicles may be released as provided
in  Section 3.5  of the Base Indenture; (G) amend or otherwise modify any
Amortization Event or any defined term referred to therein; (H) amend or otherwise modify
the Series 1999-3 Required Asset Amount, the Series 1999-3 Required Overcollateralization
Amount, the Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount or any defined term referred to
therein or (I) permit the creation of any Lien ranking prior to or on a parity with the
Indenture Trustee s Lien on the Series 1999-3 Collateral, release such Lien except pursuant
to the express terms hereof or deprive any Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder of the
security afforded by such Lien;

(iii) modify  Section 11.7(a) ; and

(iv) modify
the allocations and priorities of payments set forth in Article 3 of
this Indenture Supplement.

(b) Any amendment hereof can be effected without the Administrative Agent s being party
thereto; provided, however, that no such amendment, modification or waiver of this Indenture
Supplement that affects rights or duties of the Administrative Agent shall be effective unless the
Administrative Agent shall have given its prior written consent thereto.

(c) No amendment specified in this Indenture Supplement as requiring satisfaction of the
Rating Agency Condition shall be effective until the Rating Agency Condition is satisfied with
respect thereto.

(d) Promptly after the execution of any amendment hereof, the Administrator shall mail to each
of the Funding Agents and each Rating Agency a copy thereof.

Section 11.8  Severability . If any provision hereof is void or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such voidness or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
(i) such provision in any other jurisdiction or (ii) any other provision hereof in such or any
other jurisdiction.

Section 11.9  Notices . All notices, requests, instructions and demands to or upon any
party hereto to be effective shall be given (i) in the case of the Issuer, the Administrator and
the Indenture Trustee, in the manner set forth in  Section 13.4  of the Base Indenture and
(ii) in the case of the Administrative Agent, the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the
Funding Agents, in writing, and, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be deemed to
have been duly given or made when delivered by hand or three days after being deposited in the
mail, postage prepaid, in the case of facsimile notice, when received, or in the case of overnight
air courier, one Business Day after the date such notice is delivered to such overnight courier,

66 

addressed as follows in the case of the Administrative Agent and to the addresses therefor set
forth in Schedule I, in the case of the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding
Agents; or to such other address as may be hereafter notified by the respective parties hereto:

Section 11.10  Successors and Assigns , (a) This Indenture Supplement shall be binding
upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns,
except that the Issuer may not assign or transfer any of its rights under this Indenture Supplement
without the prior written consent of all of the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders, no CP Conduit
Purchaser may assign or transfer any of its rights under this Indenture Supplement other than in
accordance with the Asset Purchase Agreement with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser or otherwise
to the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser or a Program Support Provider with
respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser or pursuant to clause (b) below of this  Section 11.10 
and no APA Bank may assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Indenture
Supplement except to a Program Support Provider or pursuant to clause (c) below of this  Section
11.10 .

(b) Without limiting the foregoing, each CP Conduit Purchaser may, from time to time
with prior or concurrent notice to the Issuer and the Administrative Agent assign the Purchaser
Invested Amount with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser and its rights and obligations under this
Indenture Supplement and any other Transaction Documents to which it is a party to a Conduit
Assignee with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser. Upon such assignment by a CP Conduit Purchaser
to a Conduit Assignee, (A) such Conduit Assignee shall be the owner of the Purchaser Invested
Amount with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, (B) the related administrative or managing agent
for such Conduit Assignee will act as the administrative agent for such Conduit Assignee hereunder,
with all corresponding rights and powers, express or implied, granted to the Funding Agent
hereunder or under the other Transaction Documents, (C) such Conduit Assignee and its liquidity
support provider(s) and credit support provider(s) and other related parties shall have the
benefit of all the rights and protections provided to such CP Conduit Purchaser herein and in the
other Transaction Documents (including, without limitation, any limitation on recourse against
such Conduit Assignee as provided in this paragraph), (D) such Conduit Assignee shall assume all of
such CP Conduit Purchaser s obligations, if any, hereunder or under any other Transaction Document
and such CP Conduit Purchaser shall be released from all such obligations, (E) all distributions in
respect of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser shall be made
to the applicable agent or administrative agent, as applicable, on behalf of such Conduit Assignee,
(F) the definitions of the terms  Monthly Funding Costs  and  Discount  shall be determined in the
manner set forth in the definition of  Monthly Funding Costs  and  Discount  applicable to such CP
Conduit Purchaser on the basis of the interest rate or discount applicable to commercial paper
issued by such Conduit Assignee (rather than such CP Conduit Purchaser), (G) the defined terms and
other terms and provisions of this Indenture Supplement and the other

67 

Transaction Documents shall be interpreted in accordance with the foregoing, and (H) if requested
by the Administrative Agent or the agent or administrative agent with respect to the Conduit
Assignee, the parties will execute and deliver such further agreements and documents and take such
other actions as the Administrative Agent or such agent or administrative agent may reasonably
request to evidence and give effect to the foregoing. No assignment by any CP Conduit Purchaser to
a Conduit Assignee of the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser shall
in any way diminish the obligations of the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser under
Section 2.3 to fund any Increase.

(c) Any APA Bank may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable
law, at any time sell all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Indenture Supplement
and the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent,
the Issuer and the Administrator (in each case, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld),
to one or more banks (an  Acquiring APA Bank ) pursuant to a transfer supplement, substantially in
the form of Exhibit E (the  Transfer Supplement ), executed by such Acquiring APA Bank, such
assigning APA Bank, the Funding Agent with respect to such APA Bank, the Administrative Agent, the
Issuer and the Administrator and delivered to the Administrative Agent. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no APA Bank shall so sell its rights hereunder if such Acquiring APA Bank is not an
Eligible Assignee.

(d) Any APA Bank may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable
law, at any time sell to one or more financial institutions or other entities ( Participants )
participations in its Commitment, its Series 1999-3 Investor Note and its rights hereunder pursuant
to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to such APA Bank and the Participant;
provided, however, that (i) in the event of any such sale by an APA Bank to a Participant, (A)
such APA Bank s obligations under this Indenture Supplement shall remain unchanged, (B) such APA
Bank shall remain solely responsible for the performance thereof and (C) the Issuer and the
Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such APA Bank in connection
with its rights and obligations under this Indenture Supplement and (ii) no APA Bank shall sell
any participating interest under which the Participant shall have rights to approve any amendment
to, or any consent or waiver with respect to, this Indenture Supplement or any Transaction
Document, except to the extent that the approval of such amendment, consent or waiver otherwise
would require the unanimous consent of all APA Banks hereunder. A Participant shall have the right
to receive Article 7 Costs but only to the extent that the related selling APA Bank would have had
such right absent the sale of the related participation.

(e) Any CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser may at
any time sell all or any part of their respective rights and obligations under this Indenture
Supplement and the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, with the prior written consent of the
Administrative Agent, the Issuer and the Administrator (in each case, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld), to a multi-seller commercial paper conduit and one or more banks providing
support to such multi-seller commercial paper conduit (an  Acquiring Purchaser ) pursuant to a
transfer supplement, substantially in the form of Exhibit F (the  Purchaser Supplement ), executed
by such Acquiring Purchaser, the Funding Agent with respect to such Acquiring Purchaser (including
the CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank with respect to such Purchaser), such assigning CP
Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank with

68 

respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, the Funding Agent with respect to such assigning CP Conduit
Purchaser and APA Bank, the Administrative Agent, the Issuer and the Administrator and delivered
to the Administrative Agent.

(f) The Issuer authorizes each APA Bank to disclose to any Participant or Acquiring APA
Bank (each, a  Transferee ) and any prospective Transferee any and all financial information in
such APA Bank s possession concerning the Issuer, the Collateral, the Servicer and the Transaction
Documents which has been delivered to such APA Bank by the Issuer or the Administrator in
connection with such APA Bank s credit evaluation of the Issuer, the Collateral and the Servicer.

Section 11.11  Securities Laws . Each Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to the
Issuer that it is an  accredited investor  as such term is defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D
under the Securities Act and has sufficient assets to bear the economic risk of, and sufficient
knowledge and experience in financial and business matters to evaluate the merits and risks of,
its investment in a Series 1999-A Investor Note. Each Purchaser agrees that its Series 1999-3
Investor Note will be acquired for investment only and not with a view to any public distribution
thereof, and that such Purchaser will not offer to sell or otherwise dispose of its Series 1999-3
Investor Note (or any interest therein) in violation of any of the registration requirements of the
Securities Act, or any applicable state or other securities laws. Each Purchaser acknowledges that
it has no right to require the Issuer to register its Series 1999-3 Investor Note under the
Securities Act or any other securities law. Each Purchaser hereby confirms and agrees that in
connection with any transfer by it of an interest in the Series 1999-3 Investor Note, such
Purchaser has not engaged and will not engage in a general solicitation or general advertising
including advertisements, articles, notices or other communications published in any newspaper,
magazine or similar media or broadcast over radio or television, or any seminar or meeting whose
attendees have been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising.

Section 11.12  Adjustments; Set-off , (a) If any Purchaser (a   Benefitted
Purchaser  ) shall at any time receive in respect of its Purchaser Invested Amount any
distribution of principal, interest, Commitment Fees or any interest thereon, or receive any
collateral in respect thereof (whether voluntarily or involuntarily, by set-off or otherwise) in a
greater proportion than any such distribution received by any other Purchaser, if any, in respect
of such other Purchaser s Purchaser Invested Amount, or interest thereon, such Benefitted Purchaser
shall purchase for cash from the other Purchaser such portion of such other Purchaser s interest
in the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, or shall provide such other Purchaser with the benefits of
any such collateral, or the proceeds thereof, as shall be necessary to cause such Benefitted
Purchaser to share the excess payment or benefits of such collateral or proceeds ratably with the
other Purchaser;  provided ,  however , that if all or any portion of such excess
payment or benefits is thereafter recovered from such Benefitted Purchaser, such purchase shall be
rescinded, and the purchase price and benefits returned, to the extent of such recovery, but
without interest. The Issuer agrees that any Purchaser so purchasing a portion of another
Purchaser s Purchaser Invested Amount may exercise all rights of payment (including, without
limitation, rights of set off) with respect to such portion as fully as if such Purchaser were the
direct holder of such portion.

69 

(b) In addition to any rights and remedies of the Purchasers provided by law, each
Purchaser shall have the right, without prior notice to the Issuer, any such notice being expressly
waived by the Issuer to the extent permitted by applicable law, upon any amount becoming due and
payable by the Issuer hereunder or under the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes to set-off and
appropriate and apply against any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand,
provisional or final), in any currency, and any other credits, indebtedness or claims, in any
currency, in each case whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, at
any time held or owing by such Purchaser to or for the credit or the account of the Issuer. Each
Purchaser agrees promptly to notify the Issuer and the Administrative Agent after any such set-off
and application made by such Purchaser; provided that the failure to give such notice shall not
affect the validity of such set-off and application.

Section 11.13  Counterparts . This Indenture Supplement may be executed in any number of
counterparts and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so
executed shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which taken together shall constitute one
and the same agreement.

Section 11.14  No Bankruptcy Petition , (a) Each of the Administrative Agent, the CP
Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents hereby covenants and agrees that, prior
to the date which is one year and one day after the later of (i) the last day of the Series 1999-3
Amortization Period and (ii) the last day of the amortization period of any other Outstanding
Series, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, the Issuer
any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other
similar proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

(b) The Issuer, the Administrator, the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative Agent, each
Funding Agent and each APA Bank hereby covenants and agrees that, prior to the date which is one
year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding Commercial Paper issued by, or for
the benefit of, a CP Conduit Purchaser, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in
instituting against, such CP Conduit Purchaser (or the Person issuing Commercial Paper for the
benefit of such CP Conduit Purchaser) any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or
liquidation proceedings, or other similar proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or
similar law.

(c) The Issuer, the Administrator, the Indenture Trustee, the Administrative Agent, each CP
Conduit Purchaser, each APA Bank and each Funding Agent hereby covenants and agrees that, prior to
the date which is one year and one day after payment in full of all obligations under each
Securitization, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, the
Origination Trust, SPV, any other Special Purpose Entity, or any general partner or single member
of any Special Purpose Entity that is a partnership or limited liability company, respectively, any
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding or other proceedings
under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

(d) This covenant shall survive the termination of this Indenture Supplement and the Base
Indenture and the payment of all amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.

70 

Section 11.15  SUBIs . The Issuer, the Administrator, the Administrative Agent, each CP
Conduit Purchaser, each APA Bank and each Funding Agent hereby represents, warrants and covenants
that (a) each of the Lease SUBI and the Fleet Receivable SUBI is a separate series of the
Origination Trust as provided in Section 3806(b)(2) of Chapter 38 of Title 12 of the Delaware
Code, 12  Del.C .   3801 et seq., (b)(i) the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses
incurred, contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to the Lease SUBI, the Lease SUBI
Portfolio or the Fleet Receivable SUBI shall be enforceable against the Lease SUBI Portfolio or
the Fleet Receivable SUBI only, as applicable, and not against any other SUBI Portfolio or the UTI
Portfolio and (ii) the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred, contracted for or
otherwise existing with respect to any other SUBI (used in this Section as defined in the
Origination Trust Agreement), any other SUBI Portfolio (used in this Section as defined in the
Origination Trust Agreement), the UTI or the UTI Portfolio shall be enforceable against such other
SUBI Portfolio or the UTI Portfolio only, as applicable, and not against any other SUBI Assets, (c)
except to the extent required by law, UTI Assets or SUBI Assets with respect to any SUBI (other
than the Lease SUBI and the Fleet Receivable SUBI) shall not be subject to the claims, debts,
liabilities, expenses or obligations arising from or with respect to the Lease SUBI or Fleet
Receivable SUBI, respectively, in respect of such claim, (d)(i) no creditor or holder of a claim
relating to the Lease SUBI, the Fleet Receivable SUBI or the Lease Receivable SUBI Portfolio shall
be entitled to maintain any action against or recover any assets allocated to the UTI or the UTI
Portfolio or any other SUBI or the assets allocated thereto, and (ii) no creditor or holder of a
claim relating to the UTI, the UTI Portfolio or any SUBI other than the Lease SUBI or the Fleet
Receivable SUBI or any SUBI Assets other than the Lease SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivables
shall be entitled to maintain any action against or recover any assets allocated to the Lease SUBI
or the Fleet Receivable SUBI, and (e) any purchaser, assignee or pledgee of an interest in the
Lease SUBI, the Lease SUBI Certificate, the Fleet Receivable SUBI, the Lease SUBI Certificate, the
Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate, any other SUBI, any other SUBI Certificate (used in this Section
as defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), the UTI or the UTI Certificate must, prior to or
contemporaneously with the grant of any such assignment, pledge or security interest, (i) give to
the Origination Trust a non-petition covenant substantially similar to that set forth in Section
6.9 of the Origination Trust Agreement, and (ii) execute an agreement for the benefit of each
holder, assignee or pledgee from time to time of the UTI or UTI Certificate and any other SUBI or
SUBI Certificate to release all claims to the assets of the Origination Trust allocated to the UTI
and each other SUBI Portfolio and in the event that such release is not given effect, to fully
subordinate all claims it may be deemed to have against the assets of the Origination Trust
allocated to the UTI Portfolio and each other SUBI Portfolio.

Section 11.16  Discharge of Indenture . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the Base Indenture, no discharge of the Indenture pursuant to  Section 11.1(b) 
of the Base Indenture will be effective as to the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes without the consent
of the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders.

71 

Section 11.17  Duration of Indenture Trustee s Obligations . Notwithstanding the earlier
payment in full of all principal and interest due to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders and all
other amounts owing to the Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholders under the terms of this Indenture
Supplement, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee shall comply with their
respective obligations under  Sections 5A.1,   5A.2,   5A.4 ,  5A.5(d)  and
 (e) ,  5A.8 ,  5A.9 ,  5A.10 ,  5A.12  and  Article 6  until
the termination of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period.

Section 11.18  Limited Recourse , (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, any obligations of each CP Conduit Purchaser hereunder to any party hereto are solely the
corporate obligations of such CP Conduit Purchaser and shall be payable at such time as funds are
received by or are available to such CP Conduit Purchaser in excess of funds necessary to pay in
full all of its outstanding Commercial Paper and, to the extent funds are not available to pay such
obligations, the claims relating thereto shall not constitute a claim against such CP Conduit
Purchaser but shall continue to accrue. Each party hereto agrees that the payment of any claim (as
defined in Section 101 of Title 11 of the Bankruptcy Code) of any such party against a CP Conduit
Purchaser shall be subordinated to the payment in full of all of its Commercial Paper.

(b) No recourse under any obligation, covenant or agreement of any CP Conduit Purchaser
contained herein shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer, director, employee or
agent of such CP Conduit Purchaser, its administrative agent, the Funding Agent with respect to
such CP Conduit Purchaser or any of their Affiliates by the enforcement of any assessment or by any
legal or equitable proceeding, by virtue of any statute or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and
understood that this Indenture Supplement is solely a corporate obligation of such CP Conduit
Purchaser individually, and that no personal liability whatever shall attach to or be incurred by
any incorporator, stockholder, officer, director, employee or agent of such CP Conduit Purchaser,
its administrative agent, the Funding Agent with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser or any of its
Affiliates (solely by virtue of such capacity) or any of them under or by reason of any of the
obligations, covenants or agreements of such CP Conduit Purchaser contained in this Agreement, or
implied therefrom, and that any and all personal liability for breaches by such CP Conduit
Purchaser of any of such obligations, covenants or agreements, either at common law or at equity,
or by statute, rule or regulation, of every such incorporator, stockholder, officer, director,
employee or agent is hereby expressly waived as a condition of and in consideration for the
execution of this Indenture Supplement; provided that the foregoing shall not relieve any such
Person from any liability it might otherwise have as a result of fraudulent actions taken or
omissions made by them. The provisions of this Section 11.18 shall survive termination of this
Indenture Supplement.

Section 11.19  Waiver of Setoff . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture
Supplement or any other agreement to the contrary, all payments to the Purchasers hereunder shall
be made without set-off or counterclaim.

Section 11.20  Notice to Rating Agencies . The Indenture Trustee shall provide to each
Rating Agency a copy of each notice delivered to, or required to be provided by, the Indenture
Trustee pursuant to this Indenture Supplement or any other Transaction Document.

72 

Section 11.21  Conflict of Instructions . In the event the Issuer and the Administrator
shall have delivered conflicting instructions to the Indenture Trustee or the Administrative Agent
to take or refrain from taking action hereunder, the Indenture Trustee or the Administrative
Agent, as the case may be, shall follow the instructions of the Issuer.

Section 11.22  Chase Conflict Waiver . Chase acts as Indenture Trustee, the Funding
Agent with respect to Park Avenue Receivables Corporation ( PARCO ) and as administrative agent
for PARCO, as issuing and paying agent for PARCO s Commercial Paper, as provider of other backup
facilities for PARCO, and may provide other services or facilities from time to time (the
  Chase Roles  ). Each of the parties hereto hereby acknowledges and consents to any and all
Chase Roles, waives any objections it may have to any actual or potential conflict of interest
caused by Chase s acting as the Indenture Trustee, the Funding Agent with respect to PARCO or as
the APA Bank with respect to PARCO and acting as or maintaining any of the Chase Roles, and agrees
that in connection with any Chase Role, Chase may take, or refrain from taking, any action which
it in its discretion deems appropriate.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator, the Administrative Agent, the CP
Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks, the Funding Agents and the Indenture Trustee have caused this
Indenture Supplement to be duly executed by their respective officers hereunto duly authorized as
of the day and year first above written.

GREYHOUND FUNDING, LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Tony Wong

Name:   
     Tony Wong  

Title:   
     Manager  

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES,
LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Gerard J. Kennell

Name:   
     Gerard J. Kennell  

Title:   

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as Administrative Agent 

By:   
     /s/ Marie P. Merritt

Name:   
     Marie P. Merritt  

Title:   
     Vice President  

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as Indenture Trustee 

By:   
     /s/ Jennifer Cupo

Name:   
     Jennifer Cupo  

Title:   
     Vice President  

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, 
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Andrew L. Stidd

Name:   
     Andrew L. Stidd  

Title:   
     President  

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ B. Schwartz

Name:   
     B. Schwartz  

Title:   
     MD  

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as a Funding Agent 

By:   
     /s/ Marie P. Merritt

Name:   
     Marie P. Merritt  

Title:   
     Vice President  

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit 
Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Albert Yoshimura

Name:   
     Albert Yoshimura  

Title:   
     Authorized Signatory  

BANK ONE, NA, 
as a Funding Agent and as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Albert Yoshimura

Name:   
     Albert Yoshimura  

Title:   
     Vice President  

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP. 
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Andrew Stidd

Name:   
     Andrew Stidd  

Title:   
     President  

BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as a Funding Agent
and as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Rodo Mea Poli

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, 
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Douglas K. Johnson

Name:   
     Douglas K. Johnson  

Title:   
     President  

WESTDEUTSCHE LANDESBANK GIRONZENTRALE, New York Branch,
as a Funding Agent and as an APA Bank

By:   
     /s/ Anne Lacombe

Name:   
     Anne Lacombe  

Title:   
     Vice President
Asset Securitization  

By:   
     /s/ Christian C. Brune

Name:   
     Christian C. Brune  

Title:   
     Associate
Securitization  

BEETHOVEN FUNDING CORPORATION, 
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Andrew L. Stidd

Name:   
     Andrew L. Stidd  

Title:   
     President  

DRESDNER AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, 
as a Funding Agent and as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Jon R. Bottorff

Name:   
     Jon R. Bottorff  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

By:   
     /s/ Edward M. Weber

Name:   
     Edward M. Weber  

Title:   
     Assistant Treasurer  

QUINCY CAPITAL CORPORATION, 
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Elizabeth S. Eldridge

Name:   
     Elizabeth S. Eldridge  

Title:   
     Vice President  

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. 
as a Funding Agent and as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Marianne Mihalik

Name:   
     Marianne Mihalik  

Title:   
     Vice President  

SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE COOPERATIVE CORPORATION,
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Dean Kordyla

Name:   
     Dean Kordyla  

Title:   
     VP and Treasurer  

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE, 
as a Funding Agent and as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ John Gevlin

Name:   
     John Gevlin  

Title:   
     Authorized Signatory  

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Darrell R. Baber

Name:   
     Darell R. Baber  

Title:   
     Director  

FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK, 
as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Terence P. Benley

Name:   
     Terence P. Benley  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

FIRST UNION SECURITIES, INC., 
as a Funding Agent 

By:   
     /s/ Darrell R. Baber

Name:   
     Darell R. Baber  

Title:   
     Director  

EXHIBIT A 
TO SERIES 1999-3 
INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

FORM OF VARIABLE FUNDING INVESTOR NOTE 

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC 

SERIES 1999-3 VARIABLE FUNDING INVESTOR NOTE 

FLOATING RATE ASSET 
BACKED VARIABLE FUNDING INVESTOR NOTES 

GREYHOUND
FUNDING LLC, a special purpose limited liability company  established under the laws
of Delaware (the  Issuer ), for value received, hereby
promises to pay to    , as Funding Agent, or
registered assigns, the principal sum of (a)    or, if less, (b) the outstanding Purchaser Invested
Amount for the related Purchaser, which principal sum shall be payable in the amounts and at the
times set forth in the Indenture described herein,  provided, however , that the entire
unpaid principal amount of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be due on the Final Maturity
Date. The Issuer will pay interest on the outstanding principal amount of this Series 1999-3
Investor Note at the Series 1999-3 Note Rate. Such interest shall be payable on each Payment Date
until the principal of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note is paid or made available for payment, to
the extent funds are available in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account in respect of the Series
1999-3 Monthly Interest. Interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note will accrue for each Series
1999-3 Interest Period in an amount equal to the product of (i) the Series 1999-3 Note Rate for
such Series 1999-3 Interest Period, (ii) the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Amount during
such Series 1999-3 Interest Period, and (iii) the actual number of days elapsed in such Series
1999-3 Interest Period divided by 360. Additional Interest will be payable on this Series 1999-3
Investor Note to the extent set forth in the Indenture. The principal amount of this Series 1999-3
Investor Note shall be subject to Increases and Decreases on any Business Day as set forth in the
Indenture, and accordingly, such principal amount is subject to prepayment at any time. Prior to
the commencement of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, other than as a result of a Decrease,
only interest payments on the outstanding principal amount of the Series 1999-3 Investor Note are
required to be made to the holder hereof. Beginning on the first Payment Date following the
commencement of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, subject to Decreases on any Business Day,
the principal of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be paid in installments on each subsequent
Payment Date to the extent of funds available for payment therefor pursuant to the Indenture. Such
principal of and interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be paid in the manner specified
on the reverse hereof.

The principal of and interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note are payable in such coin or
currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of
public and private debts. All payments made by the Issuer with respect to this

A-1 

Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be applied first to interest due and payable on this Series
19993 Investor Note as provided above and then to the unpaid principal of this Series 1999-3
Investor Note. This Series 1999-3 Investor Note does not represent an interest in, or an obligation
of, PHH Vehicle Management Services LLC ( VMS ) or any affiliate of VMS other than the Issuer.

Reference is made to the further provisions of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note set forth on
the reverse hereof, which shall have the same effect as though fully set forth on the face of this
Series 1999-3 Investor Note. Although a summary of certain provisions of the Indenture are set
forth below and on the reverse hereof and made a part hereof, this Series 1999-3 Investor Note does
not purport to summarize the Indenture and reference is made to the Indenture for information with
respect to the interests, rights, benefits, obligations, proceeds and duties evidenced hereby and
the rights, duties and obligations of the Issuer, and the Indenture Trustee. A copy of the
Indenture may be requested from the Indenture Trustee by writing to the Indenture Trustee at: 450
West 33 rd  Street, New York, New York, 10001, Attention: Capital Market Fiduciary
Services. To the extent not defined herein, the capitalized terms used herein have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Indenture.

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Indenture Trustee
whose name appears below by manual signature, this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall not be
entitled to any benefit under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, or be valid or
obligatory for any purpose.

A-2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be signed, manually or in
facsimile, by its Authorized Officer.

TRUSTEE S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This is one of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes of a series issued under the within-mentioned
Indenture.

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK,
as Indenture Trustee 

By: 

Authorized Signature 

A-3 

REVERSE OF SERIES 1999-3 INVESTOR NOTE

This Series 1999-3 Floating Rate Asset Backed Variable Funding Investor Note is one of a duly
authorized issue of Series 1999-3 Investor Notes of the Greyhound Funding LLC (the  Issuer )
designated its  Series 1999-3 Floating Rate Asset Backed Variable Funding Investor Notes  (herein
called the   Series 1999-3 Investor Notes  ), all issued under (i) a Base Indenture dated as
of June 30, 1999 (such Base Indenture, as amended or modified, is herein called the   Base
Indenture  ), between the Issuer and The Chase Manhattan Bank ( Chase ), as indenture trustee
(the   Indenture Trustee ,  which term includes any successor Indenture Trustee under the
Base Indenture), and (ii) a Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement dated as of October 28, 1999 (as
amended or modified, the   Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement  ) among the Issuer, PHH
Vehicle Management Services LLC, as Administrator, Chase, as Administrative Agent, the CP Conduit
Purchasers, APA Banks, and Funding Agents named therein, as Indenture Trustee. The Base Indenture
and the Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement are referred to herein as the   Indenture  . The
Series 1999-3 Investor Notes are subject to all terms of the Indenture. All terms used in this
Series 1999-3 Investor Note that are defined in the Indenture, as supplemented, modified or
amended, shall have the meanings assigned to them in or pursuant to the Indenture, as so
supplemented, modified or amended.

The Series 1999-3 Investor Notes are and will be equally and ratably secured by the Series
1999-3 Collateral pledged as security therefor as provided in the Indenture and the Series 1999-3
Indenture Supplement.

Payment Date   means the 7 th  day of each month, or, if such date is not a
Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, commencing December 7, 1999.

Series 1999-3 Interest Period   means a period commencing on and including a Payment
Date and ending on and including the day preceding the next succeeding Payment Date;
 provided ,  however , that the initial Series 1999-3 Interest Period shall commence on
and include the Series 1999-3 Closing Date and end on and include December 7, 1999.

As described above, principal of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be payable in the
amounts and at the times set forth in the Indenture,  provided ,  however , the entire
unpaid principal amount of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be due and payable on the Final
Maturity Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, principal on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes will be
paid earlier during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period or as a result of a Decrease, each as
described in the Indenture. All principal payments on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes shall be
made pro rata to the Noteholders entitled thereto.

Payments of interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note due and payable on each Payment Date,
together with the installment of principal then due, if any, and any payments of principal made on
any Business Day in respect of any Decrease, to the extent not in full payment of this Series
1999-3 Investor Note, shall be made by wire transfer to the Holder of record of this Series 1999-3
Investor Note (or one or more predecessor Series 1999-3 Investor Notes) on the Note Register as of
the close of business on each Record Date. Any reduction in the principal amount of this Series
1999-3 Investor Note (or any one or more predecessor Series 1999-3

A-4 

Investor Notes) effected by any payments made in accordance with the terms hereof and of the
Indenture shall be binding upon all future Holders of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note and of any
Series 1999-3 Investor Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof
or in lieu hereof, whether or not noted thereon.

The Issuer shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the Alternate Base Rate
plus 2% to the extent lawful.

This Series 1999-3 Note is nontransferable except in accordance with the Series 1999-3
Indenture Supplement.

Each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
covenants and agrees that, prior to the date which is one year and one day after the later of (i)
the last day of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period and (ii) the last day of the amortization
period of any other Outstanding Series, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in
instituting against, the Issuer any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or
liquidation proceedings, or other similar proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or
similar law.

Each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
covenants and agrees that, prior to the date which is one year and one day after the payment in
full of all outstanding Commercial Paper issued by, or for the benefit of, a CP Conduit Purchaser,
it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such CP Conduit
Purchaser (or the Person issuing Commercial Paper for the benefit of such CP Conduit Purchaser) any
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other similar
proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

Each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
covenants and agrees that, prior to the date which is one year and one day after payment in full of
all obligations under each Securitization, it will not institute against, or join any other Person
in instituting against, the Origination Trust, SPV, any other Special Purpose Entity, or any
general partner or single member of any Special Purpose Entity that is a partnership or limited
liability company, respectively, any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or
liquidation proceeding or other proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

Each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
represents, warrants and covenants that (a) each of the Lease SUBI and the Fleet Receivable SUBI is
a separate series of the Origination Trust as provided in Section 3806(b)(2) of Chapter 38 of Title
12 of the Delaware Code, 12  Del.C .   3801  et. seq ., (b)(i) the debts, liabilities,
obligations and expenses incurred, contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to the Lease
SUBI, the Lease SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivable SUBI shall be enforceable against the Lease
SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivable SUBI only, as applicable, and not against any other SUBI
Portfolio or the UTI Portfolio and (ii) the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred,
contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to any other SUBI (used in this paragraph as
defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), any other SUBI Portfolio (used in this paragraph as
defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), the UTI or the

A-5 

UTI Portfolio shall be enforceable against such other SUBI Portfolio or the UTI Portfolio
only, as applicable, and not against any other SUBI Assets, (c) except to the extent required by
law, UTI Assets or SUBI Assets with respect to any SUBI (other than the Lease SUBI and the Fleet
Receivable SUBI) shall not be subject to the claims, debts, liabilities, expenses or obligations
arising from or with respect to the Lease SUBI or Fleet Receivable SUBI, respectively, in respect
of such claim, (d)(i) no creditor or holder of a claim relating to the Lease SUBI, the Fleet
Receivable SUBI or the Lease SUBI Portfolio shall be entitled to maintain any action against or
recover any assets allocated to the UTI or the UTI Portfolio or any other SUBI or the assets
allocated thereto, and (ii) no creditor or holder of a claim relating to the UTI, the UTI Portfolio
or any SUBI other than the Lease SUBI or the Fleet Receivable SUBI or any SUBI Assets other than
the Lease SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivables shall be entitled to maintain any action against
or recover any assets allocated to the Lease SUBI or the Fleet Receivable SUBI, and (e) any
purchaser, assignee or pledgee of an interest in the Lease SUBI, the Lease SUBI Certificate, the
Fleet Receivable SUBI, the Lease SUBI Certificate, the Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate, any other
SUBI, any other SUBI Certificate (used in this Section as defined in the Origination Trust
Agreement), the UTI or the UTI Certificate must, prior to or contemporaneously with the grant of
any such assignment, pledge or security interest, (i) give to the Origination Trust a non-petition
covenant substantially similar to that set forth in Section 6.9 of the Origination Trust Agreement,
and (ii) execute an agreement for the benefit of each holder, assignee or pledgee from time to time
of the UTI or UTI Certificate and any other SUBI or SUBI Certificate to release all claims to the
assets of the Origination Trust allocated to the UTI and each other SUBI Portfolio and in the event
that such release is not given effect, to fully subordinate all claims it may be deemed to have
against the assets of the Origination Trust allocated to the UTI Portfolio and each other SUBI
Portfolio.

It is the intent of the Issuer and each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder that, for Federal,
state and local income and franchise tax purposes, the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes will evidence
indebtedness of the Issuer secured by the Series 1999-3 Collateral. Each Series 1999-3 Investor
Noteholder, by the acceptance of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note, agrees to treat this Series
1999-3 Investor Note for Federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes as indebtedness
of the Issuer.

The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and
the modification of the rights and obligations of the Issuer and the rights of the Holders of the
Series 1999-3 Investor Notes under the Indenture at any time by the Issuer, the Administrator and
the Indenture Trustee, with the consent of the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders. The
Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of Series 1999-3 Investor Notes
representing specified percentages of the aggregate outstanding amount of the Series 1999-3
Investor Notes, on behalf of the Holders of all the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, to waive
compliance by the Issuer with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under
the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Series
1999-3 Investor Note (or any one or more predecessor Series 1999-3 Investor Notes) shall be
conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Series 1999-3 Investor
Note and of any Series 1999-3 Investor Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in
exchange hereof or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon
this Series 1999-3 Investor Note. The Indenture also

A-6 

permits the Indenture Trustee to amend or waive certain terms and conditions set forth in the
Indenture without the consent of Holders of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes issued thereunder.

The term  Issuer  as used in this Series 1999-3 Investor Note includes any successor to the
Issuer under the Indenture.

This Series 1999-3 Investor Note and the Indenture shall be construed in accordance with the
law of the State of New York and the obligations, rights and remedies of the parties hereunder and
thereunder shall be determined in accordance with such law.

No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and
unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note at the
times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency herein prescribed, subject to any duty of the
Issuer to deduct or withhold any amounts as required by law, including any applicable U.S.
withholding taxes.

A-7 

EXHIBIT A 
TO SERIES 1999-3 
INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

FORM OF VARIABLE FUNDING INVESTOR NOTE 

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC 

SERIES 1999-3 VARIABLE FUNDING INVESTOR NOTE 

FLOATING RATE ASSET 
BACKED VARIABLE FUNDING INVESTOR NOTES 

GREYHOUND
FUNDING LLC, a special purpose limited liability company established under the laws
of Delaware (the  Issuer ), for value received, hereby
promises to pay to    , as Funding Agent, or
registered assigns, the principal sum of (a) $    or, if less, (b) the outstanding Purchaser
Invested Amount for the related Purchaser, which principal sum shall be payable in the amounts and
at the times set forth in the Indenture described herein,  provided ,  however , that
the entire unpaid principal amount of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be due on the Final
Maturity Date. The Issuer will pay interest on the outstanding principal amount of this Series
1999-3 Investor Note at the Series 1999-3 Note Rate. Such interest shall be payable on each Payment
Date until the principal of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note is paid or made available for payment,
to the extent funds are available in the Series 1999-3 Distribution Account in respect of the
Series 1999-3 Monthly Interest. Interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note will accrue for each
Series 1999-3 Interest Period in an amount equal to the product of (i) the Series 1999-3 Note Rate
for such Series 1999-3 Interest Period, (ii) the average daily Series 1999-3 Invested Amount during
such Series 1999-3 Interest Period, and (iii) the actual number of days elapsed in such Series
1999-3 Interest Period divided by 360. Additional Interest will be payable on this Series 1999-3
Investor Note to the extent set forth in the Indenture. The principal amount of this Series 1999-3
Investor Note shall be subject to Increases and Decreases on any Business Day as set forth in the
Indenture, and accordingly, such principal amount is subject to prepayment at any time. Prior to
the commencement of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, other than as a result of a Decrease,
only interest payments on the outstanding principal amount of the Series 1999-3 Investor Note are
required to be made to the holder hereof. Beginning on the first Payment Date following the
commencement of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, subject to Decreases on any Business Day,
the principal of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be paid in installments on each subsequent
Payment Date to the extent of funds available for payment therefor pursuant to the Indenture. Such
principal of and interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be paid in the manner specified
on the reverse hereof.

The principal of and interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note are payable in such coin or
currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of
public and private debts. All payments made by the Issuer with respect to this Series 1999-3
Investor Note shall be applied first to interest due and payable on this Series 19993

Investor Note as provided above and then to the unpaid principal of this Series 1999-3
Investor Note. This Series 1999-3 Investor Note does not represent an interest in, or an obligation
of, PHH Vehicle Management Services LLC ( VMS ) or any affiliate of VMS other than the Issuer.

Reference is made to the further provisions of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note set forth on
the reverse hereof, which shall have the same effect as though fully set forth on the face of this
Series 1999-3 Investor Note. Although a summary of certain provisions of the Indenture are set
forth below and on the reverse hereof and made a part hereof, this Series 1999-3 Investor Note does
not purport to summarize the Indenture and reference is made to the Indenture for information with
respect to the interests, rights, benefits, obligations, proceeds and duties evidenced hereby and
the rights, duties and obligations of the Issuer, and the Indenture Trustee. A copy of the
Indenture may be requested from the Indenture Trustee by writing to the Indenture Trustee at: 450
West 33 rd  Street, New York, New York, 10001, Attention: Capital Market Fiduciary
Services. To the extent not defined herein, the capitalized terms used herein have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Indenture.

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Indenture Trustee
whose name appears below by manual signature, this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall not be
entitled to any benefit under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, or be valid or
obligatory for any purpose.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be signed, manually or in
facsimile, by its Authorized Officer.

TRUSTEE S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This is one of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes of a series issued under the within-mentioned
Indenture.

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, 
as Indenture Trustee 

By: 

Authorized Signature 

REVERSE OF SERIES 1999-3 INVESTOR NOTE

This Series 1999-3 Floating Rate Asset Backed Variable Funding Investor Note is one of a duly
authorized issue of Series 1999-3 Investor Notes of the Greyhound Funding LLC (the  Issuer )
designated its  Series 1999-3 Floating Rate Asset Backed Variable Funding Investor Notes  (herein
called the   Series 1999-3 Investor Notes  ), all issued under (i) a Base Indenture dated as
of June 30, 1999 (such Base Indenture, as amended or modified, is herein called the   Base
Indenture  ), between the Issuer and The Chase Manhattan Bank ( Chase ), as indenture trustee
(the   Indenture Trustee ,  which term includes any successor Indenture Trustee under the
Base Indenture), and (ii) a Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement dated as of October 28, 1999 (as
amended or modified, the   Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement  ) among the Issuer, PHH
Vehicle Management Services LLC, as Administrator, Chase, as Administrative Agent, the CP Conduit
Purchasers, APA Banks, and Funding Agents named therein, as Indenture Trustee. The Base Indenture
and the Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement are referred to herein as the   Indenture  . The
Series 1999-3 Investor Notes are subject to all terms of the Indenture. All terms used in this
Series 1999-3 Investor Note that are defined in the Indenture, as supplemented, modified or
amended, shall have the meanings assigned to them in or pursuant to the Indenture, as so
supplemented, modified or amended.

The Series 1999-3 Investor Notes are and will be equally and ratably secured by the Series
1999-3 Collateral pledged as security therefor as provided in the Indenture and the Series 1999-3
Indenture Supplement.

Payment Date   means the 7 th  day of each month, or, if such date is not a
Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, commencing December 7, 1999.

Series 1999-3 Interest Period   means a period commencing on and including a Payment
Date and ending on and including the day preceding the next succeeding Payment Date;
 provided ,  however , that the initial Series 1999-3 Interest Period shall commence on
and include the Series 1999-3 Closing Date and end on and include December 7, 1999.

As described above, principal of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be payable in the
amounts and at the times set forth in the Indenture,  provided ,  however , the entire
unpaid principal amount of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note shall be due and payable on the Final
Maturity Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, principal on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes will be
paid earlier during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period or as a result of a Decrease, each as
described in the Indenture. All principal payments on the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes shall be
made pro rata to the Noteholders entitled thereto.

Payments of interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note due and payable on each Payment Date,
together with the installment of principal then due, if any, and any payments of principal made on
any Business Day in respect of any Decrease, to the extent not in full payment of this Series
1999-3 Investor Note, shall be made by wire transfer to the Holder of record of this Series 1999-3
Investor Note (or one or more predecessor Series 1999-3 Investor Notes) on the Note Register as of
the close of business on each Record Date. Any reduction in the principal amount of this Series
1999-3 Investor Note (or any one or more predecessor Series 1999-3 Investor Notes) effected by any
payments made in accordance with the terms hereof and of the

2

Indenture shall be binding upon all future Holders of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note and of any
Series 1999-3 Investor Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof
or in lieu hereof, whether or not noted thereon.

The Issuer shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the Alternate Base Rate
plus 2% to the extent lawful.

This Series 1999-3 Note is nontransferable except in accordance with the Series 1999-3
Indenture Supplement.

Each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
covenants and agrees that, prior to the date which is one year and one day after the later of (i)
the last day of the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period and (ii) the last day of the amortization
period of any other Outstanding Series, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in
instituting against, the Issuer any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or
liquidation proceedings, or other similar proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or
similar law.

Each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
covenants and agrees that, prior to the date which is one year and one day after the payment in
full of all outstanding Commercial Paper issued by, or for the benefit of, a CP Conduit Purchaser,
it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such CP Conduit
Purchaser (or the Person issuing Commercial Paper for the benefit of such CP Conduit Purchaser) any
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other similar
proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

Each
Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
covenants and agrees that, prior to the date which is one year and one day after payment in full of
all obligations under each Securitization, it will not institute against, or join any other Person
in instituting against, the Origination Trust, SPV, any other Special Purpose Entity, or any
general partner or single member of any Special Purpose Entity that is a partnership or limited
liability company, respectively, any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or
liquidation proceeding or other proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

Each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder, by acceptance of a Series 1999-3 Investor Note, hereby
represents, warrants and covenants that (a) each of the Lease SUBI and the Fleet Receivable SUBI is
a separate series of the Origination Trust as provided in Section 3806(b)(2) of Chapter 38 of Title
12 of the Delaware Code, 12  Del.C .   3801 et seq., (b)(i) the debts, liabilities,
obligations and expenses incurred, contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to the Lease
SUBI, the Lease SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivable SUBI shall be enforceable against the Lease
SUBI Portfolio or the Fleet Receivable SUBI only, as applicable, and not against any other SUBI
Portfolio or the UTI Portfolio and (ii) the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred,
contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to any other SUBI (used in this paragraph as
defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), any other SUBI

3

Portfolio (used in this paragraph as defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), the UTI or the
UTI Portfolio shall be enforceable against such other SUBI Portfolio or the UTI Portfolio only, as
applicable, and not against any other SUBI Assets, (c) except to the extent required by law, UTI
Assets or SUBI Assets with respect to any SUBI (other than the Lease SUBI and the Fleet Receivable
SUBI) shall not be subject to the claims, debts, liabilities, expenses or obligations arising from
or with respect to the Lease SUBI or Fleet Receivable SUBI, respectively, in respect of such claim,
(d)(i) no creditor or holder of a claim relating to the Lease SUBI, the Fleet Receivable SUBI or
the Lease SUBI Portfolio shall be entitled to maintain any action against or recover any assets
allocated to the UTI or the UTI Portfolio or any other SUBI or the assets allocated thereto, and
(ii) no creditor or holder of a claim relating to the UTI, the UTI Portfolio or any SUBI other than
the Lease SUBI or the Fleet Receivable SUBI or any SUBI Assets other than the Lease SUBI Portfolio
or the Fleet Receivables shall be entitled to maintain any action against or recover any assets
allocated to the Lease SUBI or the Fleet Receivable SUBI, and (e) any purchaser, assignee or
pledgee of an interest in the Lease SUBI, the Lease SUBI Certificate, the Fleet Receivable SUBI,
the Lease SUBI Certificate, the Fleet Receivable SUBI Certificate, any other SUBI, any other SUBI
Certificate (used in this Section as defined in the Origination Trust Agreement), the UTI or the
UTI Certificate must, prior to or contemporaneously with the grant of any such assignment, pledge
or security interest, (i) give to the Origination Trust a non-petition covenant substantially
similar to that set forth in Section 6.9 of the Origination Trust Agreement, and (ii) execute an
agreement for the benefit of each holder, assignee or pledgee from time to time of the UTI or UTI
Certificate and any other SUBI or SUBI Certificate to release all claims to the assets of the
Origination Trust allocated to the UTI and each other SUBI Portfolio and in the event that such
release is not given effect, to fully subordinate all claims it may be deemed to have against the
assets of the Origination Trust allocated to the UTI Portfolio and each other SUBI Portfolio.

It is the intent of the Issuer and each Series 1999-3 Investor Noteholder that, for Federal,
state and local income and franchise tax purposes, the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes will evidence
indebtedness of the Issuer secured by the Series 1999-3 Collateral. Each Series 1999-3 Investor
Noteholder, by the acceptance of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note, agrees to treat this Series
1999-3 Investor Note for Federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes as indebtedness
of the Issuer.

The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and
the modification of the rights and obligations of the Issuer and the rights of the Holders of the
Series 1999-3 Investor Notes under the Indenture at any time by the Issuer, the Administrator and
the Indenture Trustee, with the consent of the Series 1999-3 Required Investor Noteholders. The
Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of Series 1999-3 Investor Notes
representing specified percentages of the aggregate outstanding amount of the Series 1999-3
Investor Notes, on behalf of the Holders of all the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, to waive
compliance by the Issuer with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under
the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Series
1999-3 Investor Note (or any one or more predecessor Series 1999-3 Investor Notes) shall be
conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Series 1999-3 Investor
Note and of any Series 1999-3 Investor Note issued upon the

4

registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of
such consent or waiver is made upon this Series 1999-3 Investor Note. The Indenture also permits
the Indenture Trustee to amend or waive certain terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture
without the consent of Holders of the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes issued thereunder.

The term  Issuer  as used in this Series 1999-3 Investor Note includes any successor to the
Issuer under the Indenture.

This Series 1999-3 Investor Note and the Indenture shall be construed in accordance with the
law of the State of New York and the obligations, rights and remedies of the parties hereunder and
thereunder shall be determined in accordance with such law.

No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Series 1999-3 Investor Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and
unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Series 1999-3 Investor Note at the
times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency herein prescribed, subject to any duty of the
Issuer to deduct or withhold any amounts as required by law, including any applicable U.S.
withholding taxes.

EXHIBIT B 
TO SERIES 1999-3  
  INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT  

FORM OF NOTICE OF INCREASE

,    

The Chase Manhattan Bank 
450 West 33 rd  Street 
New York, New York 10001 
Telecopier: 212 946 7776

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Reference is hereby made to the Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28,
1999 (as amended, modified, restated or supplemented, the
  Indenture Supplement  ), among
Greyhound Funding LLC (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services LLC, as
Administrator, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Administrative Agent, the CP Conduit Purchasers, APA
Banks and Funding Agents named therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Indenture Trustee (the
  Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999 (the   Base
Indenture  ) between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee. Capitalized terms used in this Notice
of Increase and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the
Indenture Supplement.

This letter constitutes the notice required in connection with any Increase pursuant to
Section 2.3(a) of the Indenture Supplement.

The
Issuer hereby requests that an Increase be made by each Purchaser on                       ,    
in the aggregate amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of $                      .

The Issuer hereby represents and warrants as of the date of such Increase after giving effect
thereto, the conditions set forth in Sections 2.3(a) and (c) of the Indenture Supplement with
respect to such Increase have been satisfied.

2

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Increase Notice to be executed by its duly
authorized officer as of the date first above written.

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC 

By: 

Name:

Title:

cc:

The Chase Manhattan Bank, 

as Indenture Trustee 

EXHIBIT C 

* * *  

***  
       
     INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

EXHIBIT D 
TO SERIES 1999-3 
INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

FORM OF UCC CERTIFICATE

The
undersigned, an Authorized Officer of                          (the   Company   Trust  ), refers to (i) the Base
Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999 (as amended, supplemented and otherwise modified, the
  Base Indenture  ), between Greyhound Funding LLC and The Chase Manhattan Bank ( Chase ), as
indenture trustee (the  Indenture Trustee ), and (ii) the Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement to the
Base Indenture, dated as of October 28, 1999, among Greyhound Funding LLC, PHH Vehicle Management
Services LLC, as Administrator, Chase, as Administrative Agent and Indenture Trustee, and the
certain CP Conduit Purchasers, APA Banks and Funding Agents named therein (the   Series 1999-1
Indenture Supplement   collectively with the Base Indenture, the   Indenture   terms
used but not defined herein have the meanings given them in the Indenture), and, in connection
therewith and with the transaction contemplated by the other Transaction Documents, hereby
certifies as follows:

1.  Names . (a) The exact  limited liability company   statutory business
trust  name of  Company   Trust , as such name appears in its certificate of  formation   trust ,
is                       .

(b) Set forth below is each other legal name  Company  Trust  has had since its organization,
together with the date of the relevant change:

(c) Except as set forth in Schedule A hereto,  Company  Trust  has not changed its identity or
corporate structure in any way within the past five years.

(d) The following is a list of all other names (including trade names or similar appellations)
used by  Company  Trust  or any of its divisions or other business units in connection with the
conduct of its business or the ownership of its properties at any time during the past five years:

2.
 Current Locations . (a) The chief executive office of  Company   Trust  is located at
the following address:

Name 

Mailing Address 

County 

State  

(b) The following are all the locations where  Company  Trust  maintains any books or records
relating to any accounts or chattel paper (each as defined in the UCC):

Name 

Mailing Address 

County 

State  

2

           3.  Federal Taxpayer Identification Number . The following is  Company  Trust  s Federal
Taxpayer Identification Number:

4.  Schedule or Filings . Attached hereto as Schedule B is a schedule setting forth each
filing office in which a filing by  Company   Trust , as debtor, of a financing statement on Form
UCC-1 is to be made in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereunto executed this certificate    day of                       , 1999.

NAME OF COMPANY OR TRUST  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

SCHEDULE A 

SCHEDULE B 

Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation 
Delaware Secretary of State 
New York Secretary of State 
Nassau County, New York, County Clerk

EXHIBIT E 
TO SERIES 1999-3 
INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

FORM OF TRANSFER SUPPLEMENT 

TRANSFER SUPPLEMENT, dated as of                       , among  NAME OF APA BANK  (the   Transferor  ), each
purchaser listed as an Acquiring APA Bank on the signature pages hereof (each, an   Acquiring
APA Bank  ), the Funding Agent with respect to such Acquiring APA Bank listed in the signature
pages hereof (each, a   Funding Agent  ), GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company (the   Company  ) and THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent (in such
capacity, the   Administrative Agent  ) and PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LLC, as
Administrator (in such capacity, the   Administrator  ).

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :

WHEREAS, this Transfer Supplement is being executed and delivered in accordance with
subsection 11.10(c) of the Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999 (as
from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with the terms thereof,
the   Indenture Supplement   terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined),
among the Company, the Administrator, the CP Conduits, APA Banks and Funding Agents from time to
time parties thereto, the Administrative Agent and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Indenture Trustee
(the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of October 28, 1999 (as amended
by Supplemental Indenture No. 1 thereto, dated as of October 28, 1999 and as the same may be from
time to time be further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the   Base Indenture  
and, together with the Indenture Supplement, the   Indenture  ), between the Company and the
Indenture Trustee;

WHEREAS, each Acquiring APA Bank (if it is not already an existing APA Bank) wishes to become
an APA Bank party to the Indenture Supplement; and

WHEREAS, the Transferor is selling and assigning to each Acquiring APA Bank, rights,
obligations and commitments under the Indenture Supplement and the Series 1999-3 Investor
Notes;

2

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1. Upon the execution and delivery of this Transfer Supplement by each Acquiring APA Bank,
each Funding Agent, the Transferor, the Company, the Administrator and the Administrative Agent
(the date of such execution and delivery, the   Transfer
Issuance Date  ), each Acquiring APA
Bank shall be an Acquiring APA Bank party to the Indenture Supplement for all purposes thereof.

2. The Transferor acknowledges receipt from each Acquiring APA Bank of an amount equal to the
purchase price, as agreed between the Transferor and such Acquiring APA Bank (the   Purchase
Price  ), of the portion being purchased by such Acquiring APA Bank (such Acquiring APA Bank s
  Purchased Percentage  ) of the Transferor s Commitment under the Indenture Supplement  ADD
IF APPLICABLE: and the Transferor s Purchaser Invested Amount . The Transferor hereby irrevocably
sells, assigns and transfers to each Acquiring APA Bank, without recourse, representation or
warranty, and each Acquiring APA Bank hereby irrevocably purchases, takes and assumes from the
Transferor, such Acquiring APA Bank s Purchased Percentage of the Transferor s Commitment under the
Indenture Supplement  ADD IF APPLICABLE: and the Transferor s Purchaser Invested Amount .

3. The Transferor has made arrangements with each Acquiring APA Bank with respect to (i) the
portion, if any, to be paid, and the date or dates for payment, by the Transferor to such Acquiring
APA Bank of any Commitment Fees heretofore received by the Transferor pursuant to the Indenture
Supplement prior to the Transfer Issuance Date and (ii) the portion, if any, to be paid, and the
date or dates for payment, by such Acquiring APA Bank to the Transferor of Commitment Fees or
Series 1999-3 Monthly Interest received by such Acquiring APA Bank pursuant to the Indenture
Supplement from and after the Transfer Issuance Date.

4. From and after the Transfer Issuance Date, amounts that would otherwise by payable to or
for the account of the Transferor pursuant to the Indenture Supplement shall, instead, be payable
to or for the account of the Transferor and the Acquiring APA Banks, as the case may be, in
accordance with their respective interests as reflected in this Transfer Supplement, whether such
amounts have accrued prior to the Transfer Issuance Date or accrue subsequent to the Transfer
Issuance Date.

5. Each of the parties to this Transfer Supplement agrees that at any time and from time to
time upon the written request of any other party, it will execute and deliver such further
documents and do such further acts and things as such other party may reasonably request in order
to effect the purposes of this Transfer Supplement.

6. By executing and delivering this Transfer Supplement, the Transferor and each Acquiring APA
Bank confirm to and agree with each other and the APA Banks as follows: (i) other than the
representation and warranty that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being
assigned hereby free and clear of any adverse claim, the Transferor makes no representation or
warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or
representations made in or in connection with the Indenture Supplement or the execution, legality,
validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Indenture,

3

the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes, the Transaction Documents or any instrument or document furnished
pursuant thereto; (ii) the Transferor makes no representation or warranty and assumes no
responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Company, SPV, VMS or the Origination
Trust or the performance or observance by the Company, SPV, VMS or the Origination Trust of any of
their obligations under the Indenture, the Transaction Documents or any other instrument or
document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) each Acquiring APA Bank confirms that it has received a
copy of the Indenture and such other Transaction Documents and other documents and information as
it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Transfer
Supplement; (iv) each Acquiring APA Bank will, independently and without reliance upon the
Administrative Agent, the Transferor or any other Purchaser and based on such documents and
information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in
taking or not taking action under the Indenture; (v) each Acquiring APA Bank appoints and
authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such
powers under the Indenture Supplement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms
thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto, all in accordance with
Article 10 of the Indenture Supplement; (vi) each Acquiring APA Bank agrees that it will perform in
accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Indenture are required
to be performed by it as an Acquiring APA Bank and (vii) each Acquiring APA Bank confirms that it
is an Eligible Assignee.

7. Schedule I hereto sets forth the revised Commitment Percentages of the Transferor and each
Acquiring APA Bank as well as administrative information with respect to each Acquiring APA Bank
and its Funding Agent.

8. This Transfer Supplement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws
of the State of New York.

4

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Transfer Supplement to be executed by
their respective duly authorized officers as of the date first set forth above.

NAME OF SELLING APA
BANK , as Transferor 

By:   

Title:  

NAME OF ACQUIRING APA
BANK , as Acquiring APA
Bank 

By:   

Title:  

NAME OF FUNDING AGENT
FOR ACQUIRING APA BANK ,
as Funding Agent 

By:   

Title:  

5

CONSENTED AND ACKNOWLEDGED:  GREYHOUND
FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Title:  

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES LLC, as
Administrator 

By:   

Title:  

THE CHASE MANHATTAN
BANK, as Administrative Agent 

By:   

Title:  

SCHEDULE I

LIST OF ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES 
AND OF COMMITMENT PERCENTAGES

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, as

Administrative Agent

New York, New York

Attention:

Telecopier:

TRANSFEROR 

Address:

Prior Commitment Percentage:

Revised Commitment Percentage:

Prior Purchaser Invested Amount:

Revised Purchaser Invested Amount

ACQUIRING APA BANK 

FUNDING AGENT 

Address:

Address: 

Prior  Commitment Percentage:

Revised Commitment Percentage: 

Prior Purchaser Invested Amount 

Revised  Purchaser Invested Amount:

EXHIBIT F 
TO SERIES 1999-3 
INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

FORM OF PURCHASER SUPPLEMENT 

PURCHASER
SUPPLEMENT, dated as of       ,       among  NAME OF CP Conduit Purchaser  and  NAME OF APA
BANK  (collectively, the   Transferor Purchaser  ), the CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank
or Banks listed as the Acquiring Purchasers on the signature pages hereof (collectively, the
  Acquiring Purchaser  ), the Funding Agent with respect to such Acquiring Purchaser listed
in the signature pages hereof (each, a   Funding Agent  ), GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company (the   Company  ) and THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative
Agent (in such capacity, the   Administrative Agent  ) and PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES
LLC, as Administrator (in such capacity, the   Administrator  ).

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :

WHEREAS, this Purchaser Supplement is being executed and delivered in accordance with
subsection 8.10(e) of the Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999 (as from
time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with the terms thereof, the
  Indenture Supplement   terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among
the Company, the Administrator, the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents
from time to time parties thereto, the Administrative Agent and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30,
1999 (as amended by Supplemental Indenture No. 1 thereto, dated as of October 28, 1999 and as the
same may be from time to time be further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the   Base
Indenture   and, together with the Indenture Supplement, the   Indenture  ), between the
Company and the Indenture Trustee;

WHEREAS, the Acquiring Purchaser wishes to become a CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank with
respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser; and

WHEREAS, the Transferor Purchaser is selling and assigning to the Acquiring Purchaser their
respective rights, obligations and commitments under the Indenture Supplement and the Series 1999-3
Investor Notes;

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1. Upon the execution and delivery of this Purchaser Supplement by the Acquiring Purchaser,
the Funding Agent with respect thereto, the Transferor Purchaser, the Company, the Administrator
and the Administrative Agent (the date of such execution and delivery, the   Transfer Issuance
Date  ), the CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Bank with respect to such Acquiring Purchaser
shall be a party to the Indenture Supplement for all purposes thereof.

2. The Transferor Purchaser acknowledges receipt from the Acquiring Purchaser of an amount
equal to the purchase price, as agreed between the Transferor Purchaser and such Acquiring
Purchaser (the   Purchase Price  ), of the portion being purchased by such

Acquiring Purchaser (such Acquiring Purchaser s   Purchased Percentage  ) of the Transferor
Purchaser s Commitment Amount under the Indenture Supplement  ADD IF APPLICABLE: and the Transferor
Purchaser s Purchaser Invested Amount . The Transferor Purchaser hereby irrevocably sells, assigns
and transfers to the Acquiring Purchaser, without recourse, representation or warranty, and the
Acquiring Purchaser hereby irrevocably purchases, takes and assumes from the Transferor Purchaser,
such Acquiring Purchasers Purchased Percentage of the Transferor Purchaser s Commitment under the
Indenture Supplement  ADD IF APPLICABLE: and the Transferor Purchaser s Purchaser Invested Amount .

3. The Transferor Purchaser has made arrangements with the Acquiring Purchaser with respect to
(i) the portion, if any, to be paid, and the date or dates for payment, by the Transferor Purchaser
to such Acquiring Purchaser of any Commitment Fees heretofore received by the Transferor Purchaser
pursuant to the Indenture Supplement prior to the Transfer Issuance Date and (ii) the portion, if
any, to be paid, and the date or dates for payment, by such Acquiring Purchaser to the Transferor
Purchaser of Commitment Fees or Series 1999- 3  A  Monthly Interest received by such Acquiring
Purchaser pursuant to the Indenture Supplement from and after the Transfer Issuance Date.

4. From and after the Transfer Issuance Date, amounts that would otherwise by payable to or
for the account of the Transferor Purchaser pursuant to the Indenture Supplement shall, instead, be
payable to or for the account of the Transferor Purchaser and the Acquiring Purchasers, as the case
may be, in accordance with their respective interests as reflected in this Purchase Supplement,
whether such amounts have accrued prior to the Transfer Issuance Date or accrue subsequent to the
Transfer Issuance Date.

5. Each of the parties to this Transfer Supplement agrees that at any time and from time to
time upon the written request of any other party, it will execute and deliver such further
documents and do such further acts and things as such other party may reasonably request in order
to effect the purposes of this Transfer Supplement.

6. By executing and delivering this Transfer Supplement, the Transferor Purchaser and the
Acquiring Purchaser confirm to and agree with each other and the APA Banks as follows: (i) other
than the representation and warranty that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest
being assigned hereby free and clear of any adverse claim, the Transferor Purchaser makes no
representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties
or representations made in or in connection with the Indenture Supplement or the execution,
legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Indenture, the Series
1999-3 Investor Notes, the Transaction Documents or any instrumentor document furnished pursuant
thereto; (ii) the Transferor Purchaser makes no representation or warranty and assumes no
responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Company, SPV, VMS or the Origination
Trust or the performance or observance by the Company, SPV, VMS or the Origination Trust of any of
their obligations under the Indenture, the Transaction Documents or any other instrument or
document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) each Acquiring Purchaser confirms that it has received a
copy of the Indenture and such other Transaction Documents and other documents and information as
it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Transfer
Supplement; (iv) each Acquiring Purchaser will, independently and without reliance upon the
Administrative Agent, the Transferor Purchaser or any other Purchaser and based on such documents
and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions
in taking or not taking action under the Indenture; (v) each Acquiring Purchaser appoints and
authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such
powers under the Indenture Supplement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms

thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto, all in accordance with
Article 10 of the Indenture Supplement; (vi) each Acquiring Purchaser agrees that it will perform
in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Indenture are
required to be performed by it as an Acquiring Purchaser and (vii) each Acquiring Purchaser
confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee.

7. Schedule I hereto sets forth the revised Commitment Percentages of the Transferor Purchaser
and each Acquiring Purchaser as well as administrative information with respect to the Acquiring
Purchaser and its Funding Agent.

8. This Transfer Supplement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws
of the State of New York.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Transfer Supplement to be executed by
their respective duly authorized officers as of the date first set forth above.

NAME OF SELLING CP
CONDUIT PURCHASER , as
Transferor Purchaser 

By:   

Title:  

NAME OF SELLING APA
BANK , as             Transferor
Purchaser 

By:   

Title:  

NAME OF ACQUIRING CP
CONDUIT PURCHASER , as
Acquiring Purchaser 

By:   

Title:  

NAME OF ACQUIRING
PURCHASER , as Acquiring
Purchaser 

By:   

Title:  

NAME OF FUNDING AGENT
FOR ACQUIRING PURCHASER , as Funding Agent 

By:   

Title:  

CONSENTED AND ACKNOWLEDGED:

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Title:  

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES
LLC, as Administrator   

By:   

Title:  

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, as
Administrative Agent 

By:   

Title:  

FIRST AMENDMENT, dated as of October 26, 2000 (this   Amendment  ), to the Series
1999-3 Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999 (the   Indenture Supplement  ), among
Greyhound Funding LLC (the  Issuer ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, the several commercial
paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party
thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party
thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ), The Chase
Manhattan Bank, in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA
Banks and the Funding Agents, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee
(the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended
(the   Base Indenture  ), between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the
Series 1999-3 Notes were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer has requested, and, upon this Amendment becoming effective, the Issuer and
the Indenture Trustee have agreed, that certain provisions of the Indenture Supplement be amended
in the manner provided for in this Amendment.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All capitalized terms defined in Schedule 1 to the Base Indenture
or the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

2.  Amendments to Article 1 of the Indenture Supplement . Article 1 of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by deleting  0.35%  from clause (B) of paragraph (c) of the definition
of  Monthly Funding Costs  and substituting in lieu thereof  0.275% .

3.  Conditions to Effectiveness . This Amendment shall become effective on the date on
which each of the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:

(a) The Issuer shall have executed and delivered to the Indenture Trustee, and the Indenture
Trustee shall have executed, this Amendment; and

(b) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the agreement of the each of the Purchasers and
the Issuer to the extension of the Scheduled Expiry Date and the consent of each of the Purchasers
to this Amendment in the form of Exhibit A hereto.

4. Miscellaneous.

(a)  Payment of Expenses . The Issuer agrees to pay or reimburse the Indenture Trustee
and the Purchasers for all of their respective out-of-pocket costs and reasonable expenses incurred
in connection with this Amendment, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and
disbursements of their respective counsel.

(b)  No Other Amendments; Confirmation . Except as expressly amended, modified and
supplemented hereby, the provisions of the Indenture Supplement are and shall remain in full force
and effect.

(c)  Governing Law; Counterparts . (i) THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS AND
REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.

(ii) This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts (and by different
parties on separate counterparts), each of which shall be an original, but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this
Amendment signed by all the parties shall be lodged with the Indenture Trustee. This
Amendment may be delivered by facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee have caused this Amendment to be duly
executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above written.

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK,
not in its individual capacity but solely as
Indenture Trustee 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

SECOND AMENDMENT, dated as of December 7, 2001 (this   Amendment  ), to the Series
1999-3 Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000 (the
  Indenture Supplement  ), among Greyhound Funding LLC (the  Issuer ), PHH Vehicle Management
Services, LLC, as administrator (the   Administrator  ), the several commercial paper
conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party
thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party
thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase
Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its capacity as administrative agent for the
CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its
capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of
June 30, 1999, as amended (the   Base Indenture  ), between the Issuer and the Indenture
Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued to the CP Conduit
Purchasers.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer has requested, and, upon this Amendment becoming effective, the Issuer,
the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have agreed, that certain provisions of the Indenture
Supplement be amended in the manner provided for in this Amendment.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All capitalized terms defined in Schedule 1 to the Base Indenture
or the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

2.  Amendments to Article 1 of the Indenture Supplement . Article 1 of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by (a) deleting the definition of Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement
Amount in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition of Series
1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount:

Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount   means, on any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the greater of (i) the Series 1999-3
Required PMI Percentage of the aggregate liquidation preference of the Series 1999-3 Senior
Preferred Membership Interests on such date and (ii) (A) during the Series 1999-3 Revolving
Period, the Series 1999-3 Required Percentage of the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount
on such date or (B) during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, the Series 1999-3 Required
Percentage of the Maximum Invested Amount on the last day of the Series 1999-3 Revolving
Period plus (b), if the Three-Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio with respect to the
most recent Settlement Date exceeded 12.50%, an amount equal to the product of (a) the
Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately
preceding such Settlement Date and (b) 90% of the amount by which the Aggregate Residual
Value Amount exceeded the Excess Residual Value Amount, in each case, as of that date;
 provided, however , that, after the declaration or occurrence of an Amortization Event, the
Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount

shall equal the Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount on the date of the
declaration or occurrence of such Amortization Event. 

and (b) adding the following new definitions in alphabetical order:

Series 1999-3 Required Percentage   means, on any date of determination,
15.9425% unless:

(d) for the most recent Settlement Date all of the following were true:

(1) the Three Month Average Charge-Off Ratio was 0.50 % or less;

(2) the Twelve Month Average Charge-Off Ratio was 0.25% or less;

(3) the Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio was 10.00% or less;

(4) the Twelve Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio was 5.00% or less;

(5) the Three Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio was 1.00% or less;

(6) the Twelve Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio was 0.50% or less; and

(7) the Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio was 4.50% or less;
in which case, the Series 1999-3 Required Percentage on such date will equal 14.9425% or

(e) for the most recent Settlement Date any one of the following was true:

(1) the Three Month Average Charge-Off Ratio exceeded 0.75%;

(2) the Twelve Month Average Charge-Off Ratio exceeded 0.50%;

(3) the Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio exceeded 12.50%;

(4) the Twelve Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio exceeded 10.00%;

(5) the Twelve Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio exceeded 0.75%; or

(6) the Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio exceeded 6.00%;
in which case, the Series 1999-3 Required Percentage on such date will equal 16.9425%.

Series 1999-3 Required PMI Percentage  means, on any date of determination, 166.27%
unless:

(a) for the most recent Settlement Date all of the following were true:

(1) the Three Month Average Charge-Off Ration was 0.50% or less;

(2) the Twelve Month Average Charge-Off Ration was 0.25% or less;

(3) the Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio was 10.00% or less;

(4) the Twelve Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio was 5.00% or less;

(5) the Three Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio was 1.00% or less;

(6) the Twelve Month Average Paid-In Advance Loss Ratio was 0.50% or less;

(7) the Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio was 4.50% or less;
in which case, the Series 1999-3 Required PMI Percentage on such date will equal 154.39% or

(b) for the most recent Settlement Date any one of the following was true:

(1) the Three Month Average Charge-Off Ratio exceeded 0.75%;

(2) the Twelve Month Average Charge-Off Ratio exceeded 0.50%;

(3) the Three Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio exceeded 12.50%;

(4) the Twelve Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio exceeded 10.00%

(5) the Twelve Month Average Paid in Advance Loss Ratio exceeded 0.75%; or

(6) the Three Month Average Delinquency Ratio exceeded 6.00%.
in which case, the Series 1999-3 Required PMI Percentage on such date will equal 175.06%.

3.  Amendments to Article 4 of the Indenture Supplement . Article 4 of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by (a) deleting  0.75%  from paragraph (f) thereof and substituting in
lieu thereof  1.00% , (b) deleting  6.0%  from paragraph (i) thereof and substituting in lieu
thereof  7.0% , (c) deleting paragraph (g) thereof in its entirety and reordering paragraphs (h)
through (v) thereof as paragraphs (g) through (u), (d) changing the reference to  any event

described in clause (q) through (v) above  in the first sentence thereof to a reference to  any
event described in clause (p) through (u) above  and (e) changing the reference to  any event
described in clauses (a) through (p) above  in the second sentence thereof to a reference to  any
event described in clauses (a) through (o) above .

4.  Amendment to Article 11 . Article 11 of the Indenture Supplement is hereby amended
by inserting the following new paragraph (e) to Section 11.7:

(e) The Issuer reserves the right, without any consent or other action of the Series
1999-3 Investor Noteholders, to amend Schedule 1 to the Base Indenture by (i) deleting  15% 
from clause (a)(ii) of the definition of Excess Longer-Term Lease Amount and substituting in
lieu thereof  20% , (ii) deleting  5%  from clause (b)(ii) of the definition of Excess
Longer-Term Lease Amount and substituting in lieu thereof  7.5%  and (iii) deleting  10% 
from clause (ii) of the definition of Excess Residual Value Amount and substituting in lieu
thereof  7.5% . 

5.  Amendment to Schedule 1 . Schedule I to the Indenture Supplement is hereby amended
by deleting said Schedule in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof new Schedule I in the
form of Schedule A to this Amendment.

6.  Conditions to Effectiveness . This Amendment shall become effective on December 7,
2001 (the   Amendment Effective Date  ) if each of the following conditions precedent shall
have been satisfied on or prior to such day:

(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a copy for each Funding Agent, this
Amendment duly executed and delivered by the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee;

(b) The representations and warranties of the Issuer and VMS contained in the Transaction
Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Amendment Effective Date;

(c) The Issuer shall have signed and directed the Indenture Trustee to authenticate and
deliver to the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser a new Series 1999-3 Investor Note in
the name of such Funding Agent in an amount equal to the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with
respect to such Purchaser set forth on Schedule A to this Amendment in exchange for the Series
1999-3 Investor Note previously delivered to such Funding Agent;

(d) One or more of the CP Conduit Purchasers and the APA Banks with respect to such CP Conduit
Purchasers shall have made such assignments to one or more of the other CP Conduit Purchasers and
the APA Banks with respect to such CP Conduit Purchasers in accordance with Section 11.10(e) of the
Indenture Supplement, as directed by the Administrative Agent, with the result that after giving
effect thereto and before giving effect to any Increases on the Amendment Effective Date, the
Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser shall equal the amount set
forth on Schedule B to this Amendment, and shall have delivered the related Purchaser Supplements
to the Administrative Agent and the Issuer;

(e) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the agreement of each of the Purchasers and the
Issuer to the extension of the Scheduled Expiry Date and the consent of each of the Purchasers to
this Amendment in the form of Exhibit A to this Amendment;

(f) The Issuer shall have paid to the APA Bank with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser the
non-refundable renewal fee contemplated by that certain fee letter dated the date hereof among the
Issuer, the Administrative Agent and each of the APA Banks; and

(g) The Administrative Agent shall have received a letter from each of Standard   Poor s and
Moody s assessing the credit risk assigned by Standard   Poor s and Moody s, respectively, to the
Series 1999-3 Investor Notes as AAA and Aaa, respectively.

7. Miscellaneous.

(a)  Payment of Expenses . The Issuer agrees to pay or reimburse the Indenture Trustee
and the Purchasers for all of their respective out-of-pocket costs and reasonable expenses incurred
in connection with this Amendment, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and
disbursements of their respective counsel.

(b)  No Other Amendments; Confirmation . Except as expressly amended, modified and
supplemented hereby, the provisions of the Indenture Supplement are and shall remain in full force
and effect.

(c)  Governing Law; Counterparts . (i) THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS AND
REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.

(ii) This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts (and by different parties on
separate counterparts), each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this Amendment signed by all the
parties shall be lodged with the Indenture Trustee. This Amendment may be delivered by
facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Tony Wong

Name:   
     Tony Wong  

Title:   
     Vice President  

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual capacity but
solely as Indenture Trustee 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused
this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first
above written.

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   
     Joseph W. Weikel  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual capacity but solely as
Indenture Trustee 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused
this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first
above written.

GREYHOUND FUNDING LLC  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual capacity but solely as
Indenture Trustee 

By:   
     /s/ Patricia M.F. Russo

Name:   
     Patricia M.F. Russo  

Title:   
     Vice President  

THIRD AMENDMENT, dated as of December 6, 2002 (this   Amendment  ), to the Series 1999-3
Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000 and December 7, 2001
(the   Indenture Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound
Funding LLC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the
  Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the
  CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank),
in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the
Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture
Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended (the   Base
Indenture  ), between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3
Investor Notes were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer intends to issue an additional Series of Investor Notes in an aggregate
principal amount of not less than $544,900,000 (the   Series 2002-2 Investor Notes  ), apply
a portion of the proceeds of such issuance to reduce the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to
Black Forest Funding Corporation and Bayerische Hypo-Und Vereinsbank AG, New York Branch (the
  Non-Extending Purchaser Group  ), to zero, apply a portion of the proceeds of such issuance
otherwise to the reduction of the Series 1999-3 Invested Amount and, on the January 2003 Payment
Date, apply $38,713,142 of the proceeds of such issuance to the partial redemption of the Series
1999-3 Senior Preferred Membership Interests held by Hunt Valley LLC (the   Series 1999-3 PMI
Redemption   and

WHEREAS, the Issuer has requested, and, upon this Amendment becoming effective, the Issuer,
the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have agreed, that certain provisions of the Indenture
Supplement be amended in the manner provided for in this Amendment;

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All capitalized terms defined in Schedule 1 to the Base Indenture
or the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

2.  Amendments to Article 1 of the Indenture Supplement . Article 1 of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by (a) deleting the definition of Applicable Margin in its entirety
and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition of Applicable Margin:

Applicable Margin   means on any date of determination, 1.25% per annum; provided,
however that after the occurrence of an Amortization Event or a Potential Amortization Event,
the Applicable Margin shall equal 1.50% per annum.  and

2 

(b) deleting the definition of Change in Law in its entirety and substituting in lieu
thereof the following new definition of Change in Law:

Change in Law   means (a) any law, rule or regulation or any change therein or in
the interpretation or application thereof (whether or not having the force of law), in each
case, adopted, issued or occurring after the Series 1999-3 Closing Date, (b) any request,
guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any government or political
subdivision or agency, authority, bureau, central bank, commission, department or
instrumentality thereof, or any court, tribunal, grand jury or arbitrator, in each case, whether
foreign or domestic (each an   Official Body  ) charged with the administration,
interpretation or application thereof, or the compliance with any request or directive of any
Official Body (whether or not having the force of law) made, issued or occurring after the
Series 1999-3 Closing Date or (c) any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the
force of law) from any accounting board or authority (whether or not part of government) which
is responsible for the establishment or interpretation of national or international accounting
principles, in each case, whether foreign or domestic (each an   Accounting Body  )
charged with the administration, interpretation or application thereof, or the compliance with
any request or directive of any Accounting Body (whether or not having the force of law) made,
issued or occurring after December 6, 2002. 

3.  Application of the Proceeds of the Series 2002-2 Investor Notes . The Issuer hereby
agrees to apply a portion of the proceeds of the original issuance of the Series 2002-2 Investor
Notes in the following manner:

(a) on the date of the issuance of the Series 2002-2 Investor Notes (the   Series
2002-2 Closing Date  ), to reduce the Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to the
Non-Extending Purchaser Group to zero;

(b) on the Series 2002-2 Closing Date, to effect a Decrease and reduce the Series
1999-3 Invested Amount, after giving effect to the reduction of the Purchaser Invested
Amount with respect to the Non-Extending Purchaser Group, such that the Series 1999-3
Invested Amount is less than or equal to $1,000,000,000; and

(c) on the January 2003 Payment Date, to effect the Series 1999-3 PMI Redemption.

The Issuer shall give the Administrative Agent prior written notice of the Series 2002-2
Closing Date and of the amount of the Decrease to be effected on the Series 2002-2 Closing Date no
less than five Business Days prior to the occurrence thereof.

3 

           4.  Amendment to Schedule I . On the Series 2002-2 Closing Date, the Series 1999-3
Maximum Invested Amount shall be reduced to $1,000,000,000 and Schedule I to the Indenture
Supplement shall be amended by deleting such Schedule in its entirety and substituting in lieu
thereof new Schedule I in the form of Schedule A to this Amendment if each of the following
conditions precedent shall have been satisfied on such date:

(a) the Issuer shall have applied the proceeds of the original issuance of the Series
2002-2 Investor Notes in accordance with clauses (a) and (b) of Section 3 of this Amendment;

(b) one or more of the CP Conduit Purchasers and the APA Banks with respect to such CP
Conduit Purchasers shall have made assignments to one or more of the other CP Conduit
Purchasers and the APA Banks with respect to such CP Conduit Purchasers in accordance with
Section 11.10(e) of the Indenture Supplement, as directed by the Administrative Agent, with
the result that after giving effect thereto, the Pro Rata Share with respect to each CP
Conduit Purchaser and the APA Banks with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser shall equal
the Commitment Percentage with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Banks with
respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser, calculated using the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount
with respect to such CP Conduit Purchaser and the APA Banks with respect to such CP Conduit
Purchaser set forth on Schedule A to this Amendment; and

(c) the Issuer shall have signed and directed the Indenture Trustee to authenticate and
deliver to the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser (other than the Non-Extending
Purchaser Group) a new Series 1999-3 Investor Note in the name of such Funding Agent in an
amount equal to the Maximum Purchaser Invested Amount with respect to such Purchaser set
forth on Schedule A to this Amendment in exchange for the Series 1999-3 Investor Note
delivered to such Funding Agent on December 7, 2001.

5.  Conditions to Effectiveness . This Amendment shall become effective on December 6,
2002 (the   Amendment Effective Date  ) if each of the following conditions precedent shall
have been satisfied on or prior to such day:

(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a copy for each Funding Agent,
this Amendment duly executed and delivered by the Issuer, the Administrator and the
Indenture Trustee;

(b) The representations and warranties of the Issuer and VMS contained in the
Transaction Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Amendment
Effective Date;

(c) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the consent of each of the Purchasers to
this Amendment in the form of Exhibit A to this Amendment;

4 

(d) The Issuer shall have paid to the APA Banks with respect to each CP Conduit
Purchaser (other than the APA Bank in the Non-Extending Purchaser Group) the non-refundable
renewal fee contemplated by that certain fee letter dated the date hereof among the Issuer,
the Administrative Agent and each of the APA Banks (other than the APA Bank in the
Non-Extending Purchaser Group); and

(e) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the agreement of each of the Purchasers
(other than the Non-Extending Purchaser Group) and the Issuer to the extension of the
Scheduled Expiry Date in the form of Exhibit B to this Amendment.

6.  Miscellaneous .

(a)  Payment of Expenses . The Issuer agrees to pay or reimburse the Indenture
Trustee and the Purchasers for all of their respective out-of-pocket costs and reasonable
expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment, including, without limitation, the
reasonable fees and disbursements of their respective counsel.

(b)  No Other Amendments; Confirmation . Except as expressly amended, modified
and supplemented hereby, the provisions of the Indenture Supplement are and shall remain in
full force and effect.

(c)  Governing Law; Counterparts . (i) THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS
AND REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.

(ii) This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts (and by different parties on
separate counterparts), each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this Amendment signed by all the
parties shall be lodged with the Indenture Trustee. This Amendment may be delivered by
facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof.

5 
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   
     Joseph W. Weikel  

Title:   

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   
     Joseph W. Weikel  

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual
capacity but solely as Indenture Trustee 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

6 

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual capacity but solely
as Indenture Trustee 

By:   
     /s/ Kevin Crombie

Name:   
     Kevin Crombie  

Title:   
     Assistant Vice President  

EXHIBIT A 
TO THIRD AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Consent of Purchasers 

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999,
as amended as of October 26, 2000 and December 7, 2001 (the   Indenture Supplement  ), among
Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH
Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the   Administrator  ), the several
commercial paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the
banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA Banks  ), the agent
banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ),
JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its capacity as administrative
agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture,
dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended, between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to
which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers and that certain
Third Amendment to the Indenture Supplement, dated as of December 6, 2002 (the   Third Amendment
to the Indenture Supplement  ), among the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee.
All capitalized terms defined in the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings
given to them therein.

The undersigned hereby consent to the execution, delivery and performance of the Third
Amendment to the Indenture Supplement by the parties thereto and agree, on the Series 2002-2
Closing Date (as defined in the Third Amendment), to enter into such Purchaser Supplements as are
necessary to satisfy the condition set forth in Section 4(c) of the Third Amendment.

Dated: December 6, 2002

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA
Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a
CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK ONE, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as an
APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:  

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

QUINCY CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ASSET SECURITIZATION COOPERATIVE
CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE, as an
APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BLACK FOREST
FUNDING CORPORATION, as a
CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BAYERISCHE HYPO-UND
VEREINSBANK AG, NEW YORK
BRANCH, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

EXHIBIT B 
TO THIRD AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Extension of Scheduled Expiry Date

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as
amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7, 2001 and December 6, 2002 (the   Indenture
Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the
 Issuer ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the   Administrator  ),
the several commercial paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit
Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA
Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the
  Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its
capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding
Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture
Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended, between the Issuer and
the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued to the CP
Conduit Purchasers. All capitalized terms defined in the Indenture Supplement and used herein
shall have the meanings given to them therein.

The undersigned hereby agree to extend the Scheduled Expiry Date to December 5, 2003,
effective on the date hereof.

Dated: December 6, 2002

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA
Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a
CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK ONE, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as an
APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

QUINCY CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ASSET SECURITIZATION COOPERATIVE
CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE, as an
APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

SCHEDULE A TO THIRD AMENDMENT TO SERIES 1999-3 INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

EXECUTION COPY 

FOURTH AMENDMENT, dated as of September 8, 2003 (this   Amendment  ), to the Series
1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000,
December 7, 2001 and December 6, 2002 (the   Indenture Supplement  ), among Chesapeake
Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle
Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the   Administrator  ), the several commercial
paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party
thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party
thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase
Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its capacity as administrative agent for the
CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents (the   Administrative Agent  ),
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture Trustee  ), to
the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended (the   Base Indenture  ), between
the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued
to the CP Conduit Purchasers.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer has requested, and, upon this Amendment becoming effective, the Issuer,
the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have agreed, that certain provisions of the Indenture
Supplement be amended in the manner provided for in this Amendment;

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All capitalized terms defined in Schedule 1 to the Base Indenture
or the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

2.  Amendments to Article 1 of the Indenture Supplement . Article 1 of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by deleting (a)  166.27%  from the definition of  Series 1999-3
Required PMI Percentage  and substituting in lieu thereof  135.0501% , (b)  154.39%  from the
definition of  Series 1999-3 Required PMI Percentage  and substituting in lieu thereof  126.5790% 
and (c)  175.06%  from the definition of  Series 1999-3 Required PMI Percentage  and substituting
in lieu thereof  143.5211% .

3.  Conditions to Effectiveness . This Amendment shall become effective on September 8,
2003 (the   Amendment Effective Date  ) if each of the following conditions precedent shall
have been satisfied on or prior to such day:

(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a copy for each Funding Agent,
this Amendment duly executed and delivered by the Issuer, the Administrator and the
Indenture Trustee;

2 

(b) The representations and warranties of the Issuer and VMS contained in the
Transaction Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Amendment
Effective Date; and

(c) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the consent of each of the Purchasers to
this Amendment in the form of  Exhibit A  to this Amendment.

4.  Miscellaneous .

(a)  Payment of Expenses . The Issuer agrees to pay or reimburse the Indenture
Trustee and the Purchasers for all of their respective out-of-pocket costs and reasonable
expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment, including, without limitation, the
reasonable fees and disbursements of their respective counsel.

(b)  No Other Amendments; Confirmation . Except as expressly amended, modified
and supplemented hereby, the provisions of the Indenture Supplement are and shall remain in
full force and effect.

(c)  Governing Law; Counterparts . (i) THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS
AND REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.

(i) This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts (and by different
parties on separate counterparts), each of which shall be an original, but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this
Amendment signed by all the parties shall be lodged with the Indenture Trustee. This
Amendment may be delivered by facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   
     Joseph W. Weikel  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary  

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   
     Joseph W. Weikel  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary  

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual capacity but solely as Indenture
Trustee 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   

Name: 

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual capacity but solely as Indenture Trustee 

By:   
     /s/ Wen Hao Wang

Name:   
     WEN HAO WANG  

Title:   
     Asst. Vice President  

EXHIBIT A 
TO FOURTH AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Consent of Purchasers 

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as
amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7, 2001 and December 6, 2002 (the   Indenture
Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the
  Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the
  Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the
  CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank),
in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the
Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture
Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended, between the Issuer and
the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued to the CP
Conduit Purchasers and that certain Fourth Amendment to the Indenture Supplement, dated as of
September 8, 2003 (the   Fourth Amendment to the Indenture Supplement  ), among the Issuer,
the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee. All capitalized terms defined in the Indenture
Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

The undersigned hereby consent to the execution, delivery and performance of the Fourth
Amendment to the Indenture Supplement by the parties thereto.

Dated: September 8, 2003

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   

Title:   

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

EXHIBIT A 
TO FOURTH AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Consent of Purchasers 

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as
amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7, 2001 and December 6, 2002 (the   Indenture
Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the
  Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the
  Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the
  CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank),
in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the
Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture
Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended, between the Issuer and
the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued to the CP
Conduit Purchasers and that certain Fourth Amendment to the Indenture Supplement, dated as of
September 8, 2003 (the   Fourth Amendment to the Indenture Supplement  ), among the Issuer,
the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee. All capitalized terms defined in the Indenture
Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

The undersigned hereby consent to the execution, delivery and performance of the Fourth
Amendment to the Indenture Supplement by the parties thereto.

Dated: September 8, 2003

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Andrew L. Stidd

Name:   
     Andrew L. Stidd  

Title:   
     President  

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Bradley S. Schwartz

Name:   
     Bradley S. Schwartz  

Title:   
     Managing Director  

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK ONE, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CO RATION, as a Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Douglas R. Wilson, Sr.

Name:   
     DOUGLAS R. WILSON, SR.  

Title:   
     VICE PRESIDENT  

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as an APA BANK 

By:   
     /s/ Prakash B, Wadh

Name:   
     PRAKASH B. WADH  

Title:   
     VICE PRESIDENT  

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK ONE, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CO RATION, as a Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as an APA BANK 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Lon A. Grubb

Name:   
     Lon A. Grubb  

Title:   
     Authorized Signer  

BANK ONE, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Lon A. Grubb

Name:   
     Lon A. Grubb  

Title:   
     Managing Director, Capital Markets  

YC SUSI TRUST, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

 Bank of America, National Association, as Administrative Trustee

By:   
     /s/ Marianne Mihalik

Name:   
     MARIANNE MIHALIK  

Title:   
     Principal  

BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Marianne Mihalik

Name:   
     MARIANNE MIHALIK  

Title:   
     Principal  

ASSET SECURITIZATION COOPERATIVE ,
CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE,
as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

YC SUSI TRUST, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

 Bank of America, National Association, as Administrative Trustee

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ASSET SECURITIZATION COOPERATIVE , CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Charles J. Polizzi

Name:   
     CHARLES J. POLIZZI  

Title:   
     VP AND TREASURER  

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Mark D. O'Keefe

Name:   
     MARK D. O'KEEFE  

Title:   
     AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY  

By:   
     /s/ Robert D. Castro

Name:   
     ROBERT D. CASTRO  

Title:   
     AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY  

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Andrew L. Stiff

Name:   
     Andrew L. Stidd  

Title:   
     President  

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as an APA
Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Michael Eden

Name:   
     MICHAEL EDEN  

Title:   
     DIRECTOR  

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Doris J. Hearn

Name:   
     Doris J. Hearn  

Title:   
     Vice President  

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Michael E. Fitzgerald

Name:   
     MICHAEL E. FITZGERALD  

Title:   
     EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR GLOBAL SPECIALIZED FINANCE  

By:   

Name:   
     Anne Lacombe                      

Title:   
     Director  

FIFTH AMENDMENT, dated as of December 5, 2003 (this   Amendment  ), to the Series 1999-3
Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7,
2001, December 6, 2002 and September 8, 2003 (the   Indenture Supplement  ), among Chesapeake
Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle
Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the   Administrator  ), the several commercial
paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party
thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the  APA Banks ), the agent banks party thereto
with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank
(formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP
Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity
as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30,
1999, as amended (the   Base Indentur e ), between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee
pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer has requested, and, upon this Amendment becoming effective, the Issuer,
the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have agreed, that certain provisions of the Indenture
Supplement be amended in the manner provided for in this Amendment.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All capitalized terms defined in Schedule 1 to the Base Indenture
or the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

2.  Amendment to Article 4 of the Indenture Supplement . Article 4 of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by (i) deleting the word  ARAC  from paragraph (n) thereof and
substituting the following in lieu thereof:  Avis Group Holdings, Inc., PHH Corporation
(  PHH  ), Cendant Corporation (  Cendant  )  and (ii) deleting the word  ARAC  from
paragraph (t) thereof and substituting in lieu thereof:  Cendant, PHH .

3.  Amendment to Article 11 of the Indenture Supplement . Article 11 of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by (i) inserting  (x)  before the words  to amend Schedule 1  in the
second line of paragraph (e) of Section 11.7 and (ii) adding the following to the end of paragraph
(e) of Section 11.7 immediately before the  .  at the end of such paragraph:  and (y) to consent to
the termination of the ARAC Guaranty .

2 

4.  Amendment to Schedule 1 . On the Amendment Effective Date, the Series 1999-3
Maximum Invested Amount shall be reduced to $800,000,000 and Schedule 1 to the Indenture Supplement
shall be amended by deleting such Schedule in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof new
Schedule 1 in the form of Schedule A to this Amendment.

5.  Conditions to Effectiveness . This Amendment shall become effective on December 5,
2003 (the   Amendment Effective Date  ), if each of the following conditions precedent shall
have been satisfied on or prior to such day:

(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a copy for each Funding Agent,
this Amendment duly executed and delivered by the Issuer, the Administrator and the
Indenture Trustee;

(b) The representations and warranties of the Issuer and VMS contained in the
Transaction Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Amendment
Effective Date;

(c) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the consent of each of the Purchasers to
this Amendment in the form of Exhibit A to this Amendment;

(d) The Issuer shall have paid to the APA Banks with respect to each CP Conduit
Purchaser the non-refundable renewal fee contemplated by that certain fee letter dated the
date hereof among the Issuer, the Administrative Agent and each of the APA Banks;

(e) The Issuer shall have signed and directed the Indenture Trustee to authenticate and
deliver to the Funding Agent with respect to each Purchaser a new Series 1999-3 Investor
Note in the name of such Funding Agent in an amount equal to the Maximum Purchaser Invested
Amount with respect to such Purchaser set forth on Schedule A to this Amendment in exchange
for the Series 1999-3 Investor Note delivered to such Funding Agent on December 6, 2002; and

(f) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the agreement of each of the Purchasers
and the Issuer to the extension of the Scheduled Expiry Date in the form of Exhibit B to
this Amendment.

6.  Miscellaneous .

(a)  Payment of Expenses . The Issuer agrees to pay or reimburse the Indenture
Trustee and the Purchasers for all of their respective out-of-pocket costs and reasonable
expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment, including, without limitation, the
reasonable fees and disbursements of their respective counsel.

(b)  No Other Amendments; Confirmation . Except as expressly amended, modified
and supplemented hereby, the provisions of the Indenture Supplement are and shall remain in
full force and effect.

(c)  Governing Law . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND

3 

THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.

(d)  Counterparts . This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts
(and by different parties on separate counterparts), each of which shall be an original, but all of
which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this Amendment
signed by all the parties shall be lodged with the Indenture Trustee. This Amendment may be
delivered by facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof.

4 

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its
individual capacity but solely as
Indenture Trustee 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

EXHIBIT A 
TO FIFTH AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Consent of Purchasers 

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28,
1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7, 2001, December 6, 2002 and September 8, 2003
(the   Indenture Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound
Funding LLC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the
  Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the
  CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank),
in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the
Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture
Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended, between the Issuer and
the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes were issued to the CP
Conduit Purchasers and that certain Fifth Amendment to the Indenture Supplement, dated as of
December 5, 2003 (the   Fifth Amendment to the Indenture Supplement  ), among the Issuer, the
Administrator and the Indenture Trustee. All capitalized terms defined in the Indenture Supplement
and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

The undersigned hereby consent to the execution, delivery and performance of the Fifth
Amendment to the Indenture Supplement by the parties thereto.

Dated: December 5, 2003

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, as a
CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK ONE, NA as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

YC SUSI TRUST, as a CP Conduit Purchaser  

By:   

 Bank of America, National Association, as Administrative Trustee

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, as an APA
Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ASSET SECURITIZATION
COOPERATIVE CORPORATION,
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF
COMMERCE, As an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING
CORP., as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA,
NEW YORK AGENCY, as an
APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

EXHIBIT B 
TO FIFTH AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Extension of Scheduled Expiry Date 

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28,
1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7, 2001, December 6, 2002, September 8, 2003 and
December 5, 2003 (the   Indenture Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known
as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as
administrator (the   Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on
Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to
each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to
each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as
The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers,
the APA Banks and the Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee
(the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended,
between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes
were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers. All capitalized terms defined in the Indenture
Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

The undersigned hereby agree to extend the Scheduled Expiry Date to December 3, 2004,
effective on the date hereof.

Dated: December 5, 2003

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION,
as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL
CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK ONE, NA as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

YC SUSI TRUST, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ASSET SECURITIZATION COOPERATIVE
CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE,
As an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK
AGENCY, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Schedule A 

SCHEDULE 1 TO FIFTH AMENDMENT TO SERIES 1999-3 INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

EXECUTION COPY 

SIXTH AMENDMENT, dated as of January 30, 2004 (this   Amendment  ), to the Series 1999-3
Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28, 1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7,
2001, December 6, 2002, September 8, 2003 and December 5, 2003 (the   Indenture
Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the
  Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as administrator (the
  Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on Schedule I thereto (the
  CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to each CP Conduit Purchaser
(the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank),
in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers, the APA Banks and the
Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee (the   Indenture
Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended (the   Base
Indenture  ), between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3
Investor Notes were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Issuer has requested, and, upon this Amendment becoming effective, the Issuer,
the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have agreed, that certain provisions of the Indenture
Supplement be amended in the manner provided for in this Amendment.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All capitalized terms defined in Schedule 1 to the Base Indenture
or the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them therein.

2.  Amendments to Article 1 of the Indenture Supplement . Article I of the Indenture
Supplement is hereby amended by (a) deleting the definition of Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement
Amount in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition of Series
1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount:

Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount   means, on any date of determination, an
amount equal to the sum of (a) the greater of (i) the Series 1999-3 Required PMI Percentage of the
aggregate liquidation preference of the Series 1999-3 Senior Preferred Membership Interests on such
date and (ii) (A) during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, the Series 1999-3 Required Percentage
of the sum of (x) the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on such date and (y) during any Paydown
Period, the aggregate Purchaser Invested Amount of any Non-Extending Purchasers on such date or (B)
during the Series 1999-3 Amortization Period, the Series 1999-3 Required Percentage of the sum of
(x) the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on the last day of the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period
and (y) if the last day of the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period occurred during a Paydown Period, the
aggregate Purchaser Invested Amount of any Non-Extending Purchasers on the last day of the Series
1999-3 Revolving Period plus (b), if the Three-Month Average Residual Value Loss Ratio with respect
to

2 

the most recent Settlement Date exceeded 12.50%, an amount equal to the product of (a) the
Series 1999-3 Invested Percentage as of the last day of the Monthly Period immediately preceding
such Settlement Date and (b) 90% of the amount by which the Aggregate Residual Value Amount
exceeded the Excess Residual Value Amount, in each case, as of that date;  provided ,  however , that,
after the declaration or occurrence of an Amortization Event, the Series 1999-3 Required
Enhancement Amount shall equal the Series 1999-3 Required Enhancement Amount on the date of the
declaration or occurrence of such Amortization Event.  and

(b) deleting the definition of Series 1999-3 Required Reserve Account Amount in its
entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition of Series 1999-3
Required Reserve Account Amount:

Series 1999-3 Required Reserve Account Amount  means, on any date of determination, an
amount equal to (a) during the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period, 2.2538% of the sum of (i) the Series
1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on such date and (ii) during any Paydown Period, the aggregate
Purchaser Invested Amount of any Non-Extending Purchasers on such date or (b) during the Series
1999-3 Amortization Period, 2.2538% of the sum of (i) the Series 1999-3 Maximum Invested Amount on
the last day of the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period and (ii) if the last day of the Series 1999-3
Revolving Period occurred during a Paydown Period, the aggregate Purchaser Invested Amount of any
Non-Extending Purchasers on the last day of the Series 1999-3 Revolving Period. 

3.  Conditions to Effectiveness . This Amendment shall become effective on January 30,
2004 (the   Amendment Effective Date  ), if each of the following conditions precedent shall
have been satisfied on or prior to such day:

(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a copy for each Funding Agent,
this Amendment duly executed and delivered by the Issuer, the Administrator and the
Indenture Trustee;

(b) The representations and warranties of the Issuer and VMS contained in the
Transaction Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Amendment
Effective Date; and

(c) The Indenture Trustee shall have received the consent of each of the Purchasers to
this Amendment in the form of Exhibit A to this Amendment.

4.  Miscellaneous .

(a)  Payment of Expenses . The Issuer agrees to pay or reimburse the Indenture
Trustee and the Purchasers for all of their respective out-of-pocket costs and reasonable
expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment, including, without limitation, the
reasonable fees and disbursements of their respective counsel.

3 

(b)  No Other Amendments; Confirmation . Except as expressly amended, modified
and supplemented hereby, the provisions of the Indenture Supplement are and shall remain in
full force and effect.

(c)  Governing Law . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS AND REMEDIES
OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.

(d)  Counterparts . This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts (and by
different parties on separate counterparts), each of which shall be an original, but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this Amendment
signed by all the parties shall be lodged with the Indenture Trustee. This Amendment may be
delivered by facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee have caused
this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.

CHESAPEAKE FUNDING LLC  

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   
     Joseph W. Weikel  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Assistant Secretary  

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Weikel

Name:   
     Joseph W. Weikel  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Assistant Secretary  

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, not in its individual capacity but solely as Indenture
Trustee 

By:   
     /s/ Craig M. Kantor

Name:   
     CRAIG M. KANTOR  

Title:   
     VICE PRESIDENT  

EXHIBIT A 
TO SIXTH AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Consent of Purchasers 

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28,
1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7, 2001, December 6, 2002, September 8, 2003 and
December 5, 2003 (the   Indenture Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known
as Greyhound Funding LLC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as
administrator (the   Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on
Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to
each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to
each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as
The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers,
the APA Banks and the Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee
(the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended,
between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes
were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers and that certain Sixth Amendment to the Indenture
Supplement, dated as of January 30, 2004 (the   Sixth Amendment to the Indenture
Supplement  ), among the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee. All capitalized
terms defined in the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them
therein.

The undersigned hereby consent to the execution, delivery and performance of the Sixth
Amendment to the Indenture Supplement by the parties thereto.

Dated: January 30, 2004

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Bernard J. Angelo

Name:   
     Bernard J. Angelo  

Title:   
     Vice President  

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

EXHIBIT A 
TO SIXTH AMENDMENT 
 TO INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT 

Consent of Purchasers 

Reference is made to that certain Series 1999-3 Indenture Supplement, dated as of October 28,
1999, as amended as of October 26, 2000, December 7, 2001, December 6, 2002, September 8, 2003 and
December 5, 2003 (the   Indenture Supplement  ), among Chesapeake Funding LLC (formerly known
as Greyhound Funding LIC) (the   Issuer  ), PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC, as
administrator (the   Administrator  ), the several commercial paper conduits listed on
Schedule I thereto (the   CP Conduit Purchasers  ), the banks party thereto with respect to
each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   APA Banks  ), the agent banks party thereto with respect to
each CP Conduit Purchaser (the   Funding Agents  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as
The Chase Manhattan Bank), in its capacity as administrative agent for the CP Conduit Purchasers,
the APA Banks and the Funding Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as Indenture Trustee
(the   Indenture Trustee  ), to the Base Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1999, as amended,
between the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee pursuant to which the Series 1999-3 Investor Notes
were issued to the CP Conduit Purchasers and that certain Sixth Amendment to the Indenture
Supplement, dated as of January 30, 2004 (the   Sixth Amendment to the Indenture
Supplement  ), among the Issuer, the Administrator and the Indenture Trustee. All capitalized
terms defined in the Indenture Supplement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them
therein.

The undersigned hereby consent to the execution, delivery and performance of the Sixth
Amendment to the Indenture Supplement by the parties thereto.

Dated: January 30, 2004

PARK AVENUE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Bradley Schwartz

Name:   
     BRADLEY SCHWARTZ  

Title:   
     Managing Director  

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Bernard J. Angelo

Name:   
     Bernard J. Angelo  

Title:   
     Vice President  

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as
an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as
an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Michael Eden

Name:   
     MICHAEL EDEN  

Title:   
     DIRECTOR  

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a
CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY,
as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Doris J. Hearn

Name:   
     Doris J. Hearn  

Title:   
     Vice President  

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP., as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK AGENCY, as
an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

COMPASS US ACQUISITION, LLC, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTLB AG, New York Branch, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ John H. Moorhead

Name:   
     JOHN H. MOORHEAD  

Title:   
     DIRECTOR  

By:   
     /s/ Anne Lacombe

Name:   
     Anne Lacombe  

Title:   
     Director  

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP
Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as Attorney-in-Fact

By:   
     /s/ Douglas R. Wilson, Sr.

Name:   
     DOUGLAS R. WILSON, SR.  

Title:   
     VICE PRESIDENT  

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Prakash B. Wadhwan

Name:   
     PRAKASH B. WADHWAN  

Title:   
     VICE PRESIDENT  

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK ONE, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as Attorney-in-Fact

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

FALCON ASSET SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ Lon A. Grubb

Name:   
     Lon A. Grubb  

Title:   
     Authorized Signatory  

BANK ONE, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Lon A. Grubb

Name:   
     Lon A. Grubb  

Title:   
     Managing Director, Capital Markets  

YC SUSI TRUST, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     Bank of America, National Association, as Administrative Trustee

By:   
     /s/ Marianne Mihalik

Name:   
     Marianne Mihalik  

Title:   
     Principal  

BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Marianne Mihalik

Name:   
     Marianne Mihalik  

Title:   
     Principal  

ASSET SECURITIZATION COMPANY, LLC, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

YC SUSI TRUST, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     Bank of America, National Association, as Administrative Trustee

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as an APA Bank 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ASSET SECURITIZATION CAPITAL COMPANY, LLC, as a CP Conduit
Purchaser 

By:   
     /s/ James Lees

Name:   
     JAMES W. LEES  

Title:   
     VICE PRESIDENT  

CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Anissa Quirk

Name:   
     ANISSA QUIRK  

Title:   
     AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY  

By:   
     /s/ Robert Castro

Name:   
     ROBERT D.  CASTRO  

Title:   
     AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY  

CHARTA, LLC, as a CP Conduit Purchaser 

By:   
     CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., as Attorney-in-Fact

By:   
     /s/ Robert A. Sheldon

Name:   
     Robert A. Sheldon  

Title:   
     Vice President  

CITIBANK, NA, as an APA Bank 

By:   
     /s/ Robert A. Sheldon

Name:   
     Robert A. Sheldon  

Title:   
     Vice President  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.47>
 8
 y26027exv10w47.htm
 EX-10.47: AMENDED AND RESTATED COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT

EX-10.47 

EXHIBIT
10.47 

$1,300,000,000

AMENDED AND RESTATED COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND 
REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT,

Dated as of January 6, 2006,

among

PHH CORPORATION, 
as Borrower,

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES INC., 
as Canadian Subsidiary Borrower,

THE LENDERS REFERRED TO HEREIN,

CITICORP USA, INC., 
as Syndication Agent,

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA 
and 
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
as Co-Documentation Agents

and

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. 
as Administrative Agent

J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. 
and 
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., 
as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners

Table of Contents 

- i -  

- ii - 

- iii - 

SCHEDULES

1.1A

Revolving Commitments 

1.1B

Available Foreign Currencies 

2.24(l)

Existing Revolving Letters of Credit 

2.25(l)

Existing Canadian Letters of Credit 

6.1

Existing Material Subsidiary Indebtedness 

6.4

Existing Liens 

EXHIBITS

A-1

Opinion of In-house Counsel 

A-2

Opinion of Thacher, Proffitt   Wood LLP 

A-3

Opinion of Blake, Cassells   Graydon LLP 

B

Form of Assignment and Acceptance 

C

Form of Compliance Certificate 

D-1

Form of Competitive Bid Request 

D-2

Form of Competitive Bid Invitation 

D-3

Form of Competitive Bid 

D-4

Form of Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter 

E-1

Form of Revolving Credit Borrowing Request 

E-2

Form of Canadian Revolving Borrowing Request 

F

Form of New Lender Supplement 

G

Form of Revolving Commitment Increase Supplement 

H

Form of Joinder Agreement 

- iv - 

AMENDED AND RESTATED COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT (the
  Agreement  ), dated as of January 6, 2006, among PHH CORPORATION, a Maryland corporation
(the   Borrower  ), PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES INC., a Canadian corporation (the
  Canadian Subsidiary Borrower  ), the Lenders referred to herein, CITICORP USA, INC., as
syndication agent, THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as
co-documentation agents, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as administrative agent (the
  Administrative Agent  ) for the Lenders.

INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT 

The Borrower, certain of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent are parties to a Three Year
Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2004 (the
  Existing Revolving Credit Agreement  ), pursuant to which the Lenders party thereto
established a $1,250,000,000 committed revolving credit facility under which Revolving Credit Loans
(as defined below) may be made to the Borrower.

The Borrower has requested that the Termination Date (as defined below) be extended to January
6, 2011, the aggregate Commitments (as defined below) be increased to $1,300,000,000, a committed
revolving credit facility under which Canadian Revolving Loans (as defined below) be made to the
Canadian Subsidiary Borrower and certain other amendments to the Existing Revolving Credit
Agreement be made, including to effect the foregoing.

The Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent desire to amend and restate the
Existing Revolving Credit Agreement pursuant to this Agreement and to continue the Borrower s
payment and performance obligations under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement, as amended and
restated hereby.

1. DEFINITIONS

For the purposes hereof unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated, all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective
meanings accorded to them under GAAP and all terms defined in the New York Uniform Commercial Code
and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings accorded to them therein:

ABR Borrowing   shall mean a Borrowing comprised of ABR Loans.

ABR Loan   shall mean any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by
reference to the Alternate Base Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.

Acceptance Fee   shall mean a fee payable in Canadian Dollars by the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower to the Canadian Revolving Lender with respect to the acceptance of a
Canadian B/A, calculated on the face amount of the Canadian B/A at a rate per annum equal to
the LIBOR Spread then in effect on the basis of the number of days in the applicable
Contract Period (inclusive of the first day and exclusive of the last day) and a year of 365
days.

Act   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.18.

Affiliate   shall mean as to any Person, any Person which, directly or
indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such
Person. For purposes of this definition, a Person shall be deemed to be  controlled by 
another if such latter Person possesses, directly or indirectly, power either to (i) vote
10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of
such controlled Person or (ii) direct or cause the

2 

direction of the management and policies of such controlled Person whether by contract
or otherwise.

Agents   shall mean the collective reference to the Administrative Agent, the
Syndication Agent and the Co-Documentation Agents.

Alternate Base Rate   shall mean for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards
to the nearest 1/16 of 1% if not already an integral multiple of 1/16 of 1%) equal to the
greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect for such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective
Rate in effect for such day plus   1  / 2  of 1%.

Applicable Law   shall mean all provisions of statutes, rules, regulations and
orders of governmental bodies or regulatory agencies applicable to a Person, and all orders
and decrees of all courts and arbitrators in proceedings or actions in which the Person in
question is a party.

Assessment Rate   shall mean, for any day, the net annual assessment rate
(rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next higher Basis Point) as most recently reasonably
estimated by the Administrative Agent for determining the then current annual assessment
payable by the entity which is the Administrative Agent to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (or any successor) for insurance by such Corporation (or such successor) of time
deposits made in Dollars at such entity s U.S. domestic offices.

Asset Securitization Subsidiary   shall mean (i) any Subsidiary engaged solely
in the business of effecting asset securitization transactions permitted by this Agreement
and activities incidental thereto or (ii) any Subsidiary whose primary purpose is to hold
title or ownership interests in vehicles, equipment, leases, mortgages, relocation assets,
financial assets and related assets under management.

Assignment and Acceptance   shall mean an agreement substantially in the form
of Exhibit B hereto, executed by the assignor, assignee and the other parties as
contemplated thereby.

Available Foreign Currencies   shall mean the currencies set forth on Schedule
1.1B (including, in any event in the case of Canadian Revolving Loans, Canadian Dollars),
and any other available and other freely-convertible non-Dollar currency selected by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower and approved (which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld) in writing by the Administrative Agent.

Basis Point   shall mean 1/100th of 1%.

Board   shall mean the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

Borrowing   shall mean a group of Loans of a single Interest Rate Type made by
certain Lenders (or in the case of a Competitive Borrowing, by the Lender or Lenders whose
Competitive Bids have been accepted pursuant to Section 2.4) on a single date and as to
which a single Interest Period is in effect.

Business Day   shall mean, with respect to any Loan, any day other than a
Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks in New York City are permitted or required by
law to close;  provided  that when used in connection (i) with a LIBOR Loan, the term
 Business Day  shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in
deposits in Dollars or the applicable Available Foreign Currency on the London Interbank
Market (or such other interbank

3 

eurocurrency market where the foreign currency and exchange operations in respect of
Dollars or the applicable Available Foreign Currency, as the case may be, are then being
conducted for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) and (ii) a Canadian
Revolving Loan, the term  Business Day  shall also exclude any day on which banks in Toronto
are permitted or required by law to close.

Canadian ABR Loan   shall mean Loans the rate of interest applicable to which
is based upon the Canadian Alternate Base Rate.

Canadian Alternate Base Rate   shall mean, on any day, the greater of (a) the
Canadian Base Rate in effect for such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect
for such day plus   1  / 2  of 1% per annum.

Canadian Bankers  Acceptance   and   Canadian B/A   shall mean a bill of
exchange subject to the Depository Bills and Notes Act (Canada) denominated in Canadian
Dollars, drawn by the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower and accepted by the Canadian Revolving
Lender in accordance with this Agreement.

Canadian Base Rate   shall mean the rate per annum determined by the Canadian
Revolving Lender from time to time as its base rate for Dollar-denominated commercial loans
in Canada. For purposes of this Agreement, any change in the Canadian Alternate Base Rate
due to a change in the Canadian Base Rate shall be effective on the date such change in the
Canadian Base Rate is announced as effective.

Canadian Cash Collateral Account   shall mean a collateral account established
with the Canadian Revolving Lender, in the name of the Canadian Revolving Lender and under
its sole dominion and control, into which the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall from time
to time deposit cash or Cash Equivalents pursuant to the express provisions of this
Agreement requiring such deposit.

Canadian Dollars   and   C$   shall mean dollars in lawful currency of
Canada.

Canadian L/C Exposure   shall mean, at any time, the Dollar Equivalent Amount
of the aggregate face amount of all drafts which may then or thereafter be presented by
beneficiaries under all Canadian Letters of Credit then outstanding plus (without
duplication) the face amount of all drafts which have been presented under Canadian Letters
of Credit but have not yet been paid or have been paid but not reimbursed.

Canadian Letters of Credit   shall mean the letters of credit issued pursuant
to Section 2.25.

Canadian Prime Rate   shall mean, on any day, the annual rate of interest equal
to the greater of (i) the annual rate of interest announced by The Bank of Nova Scotia in
effect as its prime rate at its principal office in Toronto on such day for determining
interest rates on Canadian Dollar-denominated commercial loans in Canada, and (ii) the
annual rate of interest equal to the sum of (A) the one-month CDOR Rate in effect on such
day, plus (B) 1.00%.

Canadian Prime Rate Loan   shall mean Loans the rate of interest applicable to
which is based upon the Canadian Prime Rate.

Canadian Revolving Borrowing Request   shall mean a request made pursuant to
Section 2.6 substantially in the form of Exhibit E-2.

4 

Canadian Revolving Commitment   shall mean the obligation of the Canadian
Revolving Lender to make Canadian Revolving Loans pursuant to Section 2.1 in an aggregate
principal Dollar Equivalent Amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed $50,000,000, as
the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.

Canadian Revolving Lender   shall mean The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity
as a Canadian Revolving Lender hereunder and any other successor thereto in such capacity.

Canadian Revolving Loan   shall mean the Loans made by the Canadian Revolving
Lender to the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to a notice given by the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower under Section 2.6. Each Canadian Revolving Loan shall be a Canadian
B/A, a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, a LIBOR Canadian Revolving Loan or a Canadian ABR Loan.

Capital Lease   shall mean as applied to any Person, any lease of any property
(whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in accordance with GAAP,
is or should be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person.

Cash Collateral Account   shall mean a collateral account established with the
Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and under its sole dominion
and control, into which the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower (other than the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower) shall from time to time deposit Dollars pursuant to the express
provisions of this Agreement requiring such deposit.

Cash Equivalents   shall mean (i) investments in commercial paper maturing in
not more than 270 days from the date of issuance which at the time of acquisition is rated
at least A-1 or the equivalent thereof by S P, or P-1 or the equivalent thereof by Moody s,
(ii) investments in direct obligations or obligations which are guaranteed or insured by the
United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and
credit of the United States is pledged in support thereof) having a maturity of not more
than three years from the date of acquisition, (iii) investments in certificates of deposit
maturing not more than one year from the date of origin issued by a Lender or a bank or
trust company organized or licensed under the laws of the United States or any state or
territory thereof having capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating at least
$500,000,000 and in each case A rated or better by S P or Moody s, (iv) money market mutual
funds having assets in excess of $2,000,000,000, (v) investments in asset-backed or
mortgage-backed securities, including investments in collateralized, adjustable rate
mortgage securities and those mortgage-backed securities which are rated at least AA by S P
or Aa by Moody s or are of comparable quality at the time of investment, and (vi) banker s
acceptances maturing not more than one year from the date of origin issued by a bank or
trust company organized or licensed under the laws of the United States or any state or
territory thereof and having capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating at least
$500,000,000, and rated A or better by S P or Moody s.

CDOR Rate   shall mean, at any date of determination, the annual rate of
interest which is the rate based on an average rate applicable to Canadian Dollar banker s
acceptances for the applicable period appearing on the  Reuters Screen CDOR Page , rounded
to the nearest 1/100th of 1% (with .005% being rounded up), at approximately 10:00 a.m.,
Toronto time, on such date, or if such date is not a Business Day, then on the immediately
preceding Business Day, provided that if such rate does not appear on the Reuters Screen
CDOR Page on such date as contemplated, then the CDOR Rate on such date shall be calculated
as the arithmetic mean of the rates for the term referred to above applicable to Canadian
Dollar banker s acceptances quoted by the banks

5 

listed in Schedule I of the Bank Act
(Canada) as of 10:00 a.m., Toronto time, on such date or, if such date is not a Business
Day, then on the immediately preceding Business Day.

Change in Control   shall mean (i) the acquisition by any Person or group
(within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules of the
Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the Closing Date), directly or
indirectly, beneficially or of record, of ownership or control of in excess of 50% of the
voting common stock of the Borrower on a fully diluted basis at any time or (ii) if at any
time, individuals who at the Closing Date constituted the Board of Directors the Borrower
(together with any new directors whose election by such Board of Directors or whose
nomination for election by the shareholders of the Borrower, as the case may be, was
approved by a vote of the majority of the directors then still in office who were either
directors at the Closing Date or whose election or nomination for election was previously so
approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the
Borrower then in office.

Closing Date   shall mean the date on which the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of this Agreement as set forth in Section 4.1 have been satisfied or waived,
which date is January 6, 2005.

Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the rules and
regulations issued thereunder, as now and hereafter in effect, or any successor provision
thereto.

Co-Documentation Agents   shall mean the collective reference to The Bank of
Nova Scotia and Wachovia Bank, National Association.

Commitments   shall mean the aggregate Revolving Commitments and the Canadian
Revolving Commitment.

Commitment Period   shall mean the period from and including the Closing Date
to but not including the Termination Date or such earlier date on which the Commitments
shall have been terminated in accordance with the terms hereof.

Commitment Utilization Percentage   shall mean on any day the percentage
equivalent of a fraction (a) the numerator of which is the sum of (i) the outstanding
aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of Loans and (ii) the then current L/C Exposure
and (b) the denominator of which is the Total Revolving Commitment (or, on any day after
termination of the Commitments, the Total Revolving Commitment in effect immediately
preceding such termination).

Competitive Bid   shall mean an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Loan
pursuant to Section 2.4 substantially in the form of Exhibit D-3.

Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter   shall mean a notification made by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to Section 2.4(d) substantially in the form of
Exhibit D-4.

Competitive Bid Rate   shall mean, as to any Competitive Bid made by a Lender
pursuant to Section 2.4(b), (a) in the case of a LIBOR Loan, the Margin and (b) in the case
of a Fixed Rate Loan, the fixed rate of interest offered by the Lender making such
Competitive Bid.

Competitive Bid Request   shall mean a request made pursuant to Section 2.4
substantially in the form of Exhibit D-1.

6 

Competitive Borrowing   shall mean a Borrowing consisting of a Competitive Loan
or concurrent Competitive Loans from the Lender or Lenders whose Competitive Bids for such
Borrowing have been accepted by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower under the
bidding procedure described in Section 2.4.

Competitive Loan   shall mean a Loan from a Lender to the Borrower or any
Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to the bidding procedure described in Section 2.4. Each
Competitive Loan shall be a LIBOR Competitive Loan or a Fixed Rate Loan.

Confidential Information Memorandum   shall mean the Confidential Information
Memorandum dated November 2005 and which was made available to each of the Lenders party to
this Agreement as of such date.

Consolidated Assets   shall mean, at any date of determination, the total
assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined in accordance with GAAP.

Consolidated Net Income   shall mean, for any period for which such amount is
being determined, the net income (loss) of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
during such period determined on a consolidated basis for such period taken as a single
accounting period in accordance with GAAP,  provided  that there shall be excluded (i)
income (or loss) of any Person (other than a Consolidated Subsidiary) in which the Borrower
or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries has an equity investment or comparable interest,
except to the extent of the amount of dividends or other distributions actually paid to the
Borrower or its Consolidated Subsidiaries by such Person during such period, (ii) the income
(or loss) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Consolidated Subsidiary or is
merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries or the
Person s assets are acquired by the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries, (iii)
the income of any Consolidated Subsidiary to the extent that the declaration or payment of
dividends or similar distributions by that Consolidated Subsidiary of the income is not at
the time permitted by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument,
judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that
Consolidated Subsidiary, (iv) any extraordinary after-tax gains and (v) any extraordinary
pretax losses but only to the extent attributable to a write-down of financing costs
relating to any existing and future indebtedness.

Consolidated Net Worth   shall mean, at any date of determination, all amounts
which would be included on a balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
under stockholders  equity as of such date in accordance with GAAP.

Consolidated Subsidiaries   shall mean all Subsidiaries of the Borrower that
are required to be consolidated with the Borrower for financial reporting purposes in
accordance with GAAP.

Contract Period   shall mean the term of a Canadian B/A selected by the
Canadian Subsidiary Borrower in accordance with Section 2.26 commencing on the borrowing
date, or the date of refinancing of such Canadian B/A in accordance with Section 2.9, as the
case may be, of such Canadian B/A and expiring on a Working Day which shall be either 30
days, 60 days, 90 days or 180 days thereafter, in all cases subject to availability;
 provided  that the Contract Period may be for a period of less than 30 days as agreed
by the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower and the Canadian Revolving Lender;  provided 
 further  that no Contract Period shall extend beyond the Termination Date.

7 

Contractual Obligation   shall mean, as to any Person, any provision of any
security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which
such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.

Currency   or   Currencies   shall mean the collective reference to
Dollars and Available Foreign Currencies.

Default   shall mean any event, act or condition which with notice or lapse of
time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.

Disclosed Matters   shall mean the information disclosed on the Borrower s Form
8-K, dated September 7, 2005.

Discount Proceeds   shall mean for any Canadian B/A, an amount (rounded to the
nearest C$0.01, and with C$0.005 being rounded up) calculated on the applicable borrowing
date, rollover date or conversion date, as the case may be, by multiplying:

(a) 
       
     the face amount of the Canadian B/A; by 

(b) 
       
     the quotient of one divided by the sum of one plus the product of: 

1. the Discount Rate (expressed as a decimal) applicable to
such Canadian B/A, and

2. a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days
in the Contract Period of the Canadian B/A (inclusive of the first
day and exclusive of the last day) and the denominator of which is
365.

with such quotient being rounded up or down to the fifth decimal place and
0.000005 being rounded up.

Discount Rate   shall mean for any day, the average CDOR Rate for the Contract
Period applicable to any Canadian B/A to be issued by the Canadian Revolving Lender on such
day or if no such rate is available, the rate (expressed to two decimal places and rounded
upward, if necessary, to the nearest 0.01%) quoted by the Canadian Revolving Lender as the
discount rate at which the Canadian Revolving Lender would, in accordance with its normal
practices, at or about 10:00 a.m., Toronto time, on such day, be prepared to purchase
bankers  acceptances accepted by it having a face amount and term comparable to the face
amount and Contract Period of such Canadian B/A.

Dollar Equivalent Amount   shall mean with respect to (i) any amount of any
Available Foreign Currency on any date, the equivalent amount in Dollars of such amount of
Available Foreign Currency, as determined by the Administrative Agent using the applicable
Exchange Rate and (ii) any amount in Dollars, such amount.

Dollars   and   $   and   US$   shall mean lawful currency of the
United States.

Eligible Canadian Revolving Lender   shall mean any Schedule I Bank, Schedule
II Bank or Schedule III Bank, in each case, within the meaning of the Bank Act (Canada).

Environmental Laws   shall mean any and all federal, provincial, state, local or
municipal laws, rules, orders, regulations, statutes, ordinances, codes, decrees or requirements of

8

any Governmental Authority regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards
of conduct concerning, any Hazardous Material or environmental protection or health and
safety, as now or at any time hereafter in effect, including without limitation, the Clean
Water Act also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C.    1251
 et   seq ., the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.    7401  et   seq ., the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C.    136  et   seq .,
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, 30 U.S.C.    1201  et   seq .,
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.    9601
 et   seq ., the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Public Law
99-499, 100 Stat. 1613, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, 42 U.S.C.   
11001  et   seq ., the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C.    6901
 et   seq ., the Occupational Safety and Health Act as amended, 29 U.S.C.   655
and   657, together, in each case, with any amendment thereto, and the regulations adopted
and publications promulgated thereunder and all substitutions thereof.

Environmental Liabilities   shall mean any liability, contingent or otherwise
(including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties
or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or
based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling,
transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to
any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials
into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant
to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.

ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as such
Act may be amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

euro   shall mean the single currency of participating member states of the
European Union.

euro unit   shall mean the currency unit of the euro.

Event of Default   shall have the meaning given such term in Article 7.

Excess Utilization Day   shall mean each day on which the Commitment
Utilization Percentage exceeds 50%.

Exchange Rate   shall mean on any date (i) with respect to any Available
Foreign Currency other than Canadian Dollars, the rate at which such Available Foreign
Currency may be exchanged into Dollars, as set forth on such date on the relevant Reuters
currency page at or about 11:00 A.M. New York City time on such date and (ii) with respect
to Canadian Dollars, the spot rate at which Canadian Dollars may be exchanged into U.S.
Dollars, as quoted by The Bank of Canada at approximately 12:00 noon, Toronto time on such
date, as set forth on the Reuters  BOFC  page. In the event that such rate does not appear
on any such Reuters page, the  Exchange Rate  with respect to such Available Foreign
Currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for
displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower
or, in the absence of such agreement, such  Exchange Rate  shall instead be the
Administrative Agent s spot rate of exchange in the interbank market where its foreign
currency exchange operations in respect of such Available Foreign Currency are then being
conducted, at or about 10:00 A.M., local time, at such date for the purchase of Dollars with
such Available Foreign Currency, for delivery two Business Days later;  provided  that
if at the time of any such determination, no such spot rate can reasonably be

9 

quoted, the
Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method (including obtaining quotes from three or
more market makers for such Available Foreign Currency) as it deems applicable to
determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error
(without prejudice to the determination of the reasonableness of such method).

Existing Canadian Credit Agreement   shall mean the Letter Loan Agreement
between PHH Vehicle Management Services Inc. (formerly known as PHH Canada Inc.) and The
Bank of Nova Scotia, dated August 14, 1990, as amended.

Existing Canadian Letters of Credit   shall mean all letters of credit
outstanding under the Existing Canadian Credit Agreement immediately prior to the Closing
Date.

Existing Revolving Letters of Credit   shall mean all letters of credit
outstanding under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement immediately prior to the Closing
Date.

Existing Revolving Credit Agreement   shall have the meaning provided in the
Introductory Statement to this Agreement.

Facility Fee   shall have the meaning given such term in Section 2.8.

Federal Funds Effective Rate   shall mean, for any period, a fluctuating
interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the
rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System
arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is
a Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by
the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by
it. If for any reason the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination
shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds
Effective Rate, for any reason, including, without limitation, the inability or failure of
the Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient bids or publications in accordance with the
terms hereof, the Alternate Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (b) of
such defined term until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist.
Any change in the Alternate Base Rate or the Federal Funds Rate due to a change in the
Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the
Federal Funds Effective Rate.

Federal Funds Rate   shall mean for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards
to the nearest 1/16 of 1% if not already an integral multiple of 1/16 of 1%) equal to the
Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect for such day plus 3/16 of 1%.

FFR Borrowing   shall mean a Borrowing comprised of FFR Loans.

FFR Loan   shall mean any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by
reference to the Federal Funds Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.

FFR Spread   shall mean, at any date or any period of determination, the FFR
Spread that would be in effect on such date pursuant to the chart set forth in Section 2.23
based on the rating of the Borrower s senior unsecured non-credit enhanced long-term debt.

Fitch   shall mean Fitch Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.

Fixed Rate Borrowing   shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Fixed Rate Loans.

10 

        Fixed Rate Loan   shall mean any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a fixed
percentage rate per annum (expressed in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal
places) specified by the Lender making such Loan in its Competitive Bid.

Fundamental Documents   shall mean this Agreement, any Joinder Agreement and
any other ancillary documentation which is required to be, or is otherwise, executed by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower and delivered to the Administrative Agent in connection
with this Agreement.

Funding Office   shall mean the office of the Administrative Agent (or, in the
case of any Loan denominated in any Available Foreign Currency, an Affiliate of the
Administrative Agent) specified in Section 10.1 or such other office as may be specified
from time to time by the Administrative Agent or the respective Affiliate of the
Administrative Agent as its funding office by written notice to the Borrower and the
Lenders;  provided  that, in the case of Loans made under the Canadian Revolving
Commitment,  Funding Office  shall mean the office of the Canadian Revolving Lender
specified in Section 10.1.

GAAP   shall mean generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied
(except for accounting changes in response to FASB releases or other authoritative
pronouncements)  provided , however, that all calculations made pursuant to Sections
6.6 and 6.7 and the related definitions shall have been computed based on such generally
accepted accounting principles as are in effect on the date hereof.

Governmental Authority   shall mean any federal, provincial, state, municipal
or other governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, or
any court, in each case, whether of the United States or foreign.

Guaranty   shall mean, as to any Person, any direct or indirect obligation of
such Person guaranteeing or intended to guarantee any Indebtedness, Capital Lease, dividend
or other monetary obligation (  primary obligation  ) of any other Person (the
  primary obligor  ) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including, without
limitation, any obligation of such Person, whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase any
such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor,
(b) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or payment of any such primary
obligation or (ii) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or
otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor, (c) to purchase
property, securities or services, in each case, primarily for the purpose of assuring the
owner of any such primary obligation of the repayment of such primary obligation or (d) as a
general partner of a partnership or a joint venturer of a joint venture in respect of
indebtedness of such partnership or such joint venture which is treated as a general
partnership for purposes of Applicable Law. The amount of any Guaranty shall be deemed to
be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount (or portion thereof) of the primary
obligation in respect of which such Guaranty is made or, if not stated or determinable, the
maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof (assuming such Person is
required to perform thereunder);  provided  that the amount of any Guaranty shall be
limited to the extent necessary so that such amount does not exceed the value of the assets
of such Person (as reflected on a consolidated balance sheet of such Person prepared in
accordance with GAAP) to which any creditor or beneficiary of such Guaranty would have
recourse. Notwithstanding the foregoing definition, the term  Guaranty  shall not include
any direct or indirect obligation of a Person as a general partner of a general partnership
or a joint venturer of a joint venture in respect of Indebtedness of such general
partnership or joint venture, to the extent such Indebtedness is contractually non-recourse
to the

11 

assets of such Person as a general partner or joint venturer (other than assets
comprising the capital of such general partnership or joint venture).

Hazardous Materials   shall mean any flammable materials, explosives,
radioactive materials, hazardous materials, hazardous wastes, hazardous or toxic substances,
or similar materials defined as such in any Environmental Law.

Indebtedness   shall mean (i) all indebtedness, obligations and other
liabilities of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries which are, at the date as of which
Indebtedness is to be determined, includable as liabilities in a consolidated balance sheet
of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, other than (w) accounts payable, accrued expenses and
derivatives transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to hedging
programs, (x) advances from clients obtained in the ordinary course of the relocation
management services business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (y) current and deferred
income taxes and other similar liabilities and (z) minority interest, plus (ii) without
duplicating any items included in Indebtedness pursuant to the foregoing clause (i) (but
excluding reinsurance obligations of Atrium Insurance Corporation), the maximum aggregate
amount of all liabilities of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under any Guaranty,
indemnity or similar undertaking given or assumed of, or in respect of, the indebtedness,
obligations or other liabilities, assets, revenues, income or dividends of any Person other
than the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries and (iii) all other obligations or liabilities
of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in relation to the discharge of the obligations
of any Person other than the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries.

Interest Payment Date   shall mean, with respect to any Borrowing, the last day
of the Interest Period applicable thereto and, in the case of a LIBOR Borrowing with an
Interest Period of more than three months  duration or a Fixed Rate Borrowing with an
Interest Period of more than 90 days  duration, each day that would have been an Interest
Payment Date had successive Interest Periods of three months  duration or 90 days  duration,
as the case may be, been applicable to such Borrowing, and, in addition, the date of any
refinancing or conversion of a Borrowing with, or to, a Borrowing of a different Interest
Rate Type.

Interest Period   shall mean (a) as to any LIBOR Borrowing, (i) the period
commencing on the date of such Borrowing, and ending one week after the date of such
Borrowing or (ii) the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing, and ending on the
numerically corresponding day (or, if there is no numerically corresponding day, on the last
day) in the calendar month that is 1, 2, 3, 6 or, subject to each Lender s approval, 12
months thereafter, as the Borrower or any relevant Subsidiary Borrower may elect, (b) as to
any ABR Borrowing, FFR Borrowing, Canadian Prime Rate Loan or Canadian ABR Loan, the period
commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the earliest of (i) the next
succeeding March 31, June 30, September 30 or December 31, (ii) the Termination Date and
(iii) the date such Borrowing is refinanced with a Borrowing of a different Interest Rate
Type in accordance with Section 2.7 or is prepaid in accordance with Section 2.14, and (c)
as to any Fixed Rate Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and
ending on the date specified in the Competitive Bids in which the offer to make the Fixed
Rate Loans comprising such Borrowing were extended, which shall not be earlier than seven
days after the date of such Borrowing or later than 360 days after the date of such
Borrowing;  provided  that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a
Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day
unless, in the case of LIBOR Loans only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the
next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding
Business Day and (ii) no Interest Period with respect to any LIBOR Borrowing or Fixed Rate
Borrowing may be selected which would result in the aggregate amount of LIBOR Loans and
Fixed Rate Loans

12 

having Interest Periods ending after any day on which a Commitment reduction is
scheduled to occur being in excess of the Total Commitment scheduled to be in effect after
such date. Interest shall accrue from, and including, the first day of an Interest Period
to, but excluding, the last day of such Interest Period.

Interest Rate Protection Agreement   shall mean any interest rate swap
agreement, interest rate cap agreement or other similar financial agreement or arrangement.

Interest Rate Type   when used in respect of any Loan or Borrowing, shall refer
to the rate by reference to which interest on such Loan or on the Loans comprising such
Borrowing is determined.

Joinder Agreement   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
10.9(b)(i).

Joint Lead Arrangers   shall mean the collective reference to J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc.

JPMorgan Chase Bank   shall mean JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

L/C Exposure   shall mean, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Canadian
L/C Exposure plus the Revolving L/C Exposure.

LEAF Trust Transaction   shall mean the financing of motor vehicles and other
equipment or personal property pursuant to that certain Amended and Restated Purchase
Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2001, among LEAF Trust, a trust established under the laws
of the Province of Ontario, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, as Administrative Agent
and the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower (the   Purchase Agreement  ), including any
amendments, supplements, modifications, extensions, renewals, restatements or refundings
thereof and any facilities or agreements that replace, refund or refinance, in whole or in
part, the Purchase Agreement.

Lenders   shall mean the Canadian Revolving Lender and the Revolving Lenders.

Lending Office   shall mean, with respect to any of the Lenders, the branch or
branches (or affiliate or affiliates) from which any such Lender s LIBOR Loans, Fixed Rate
Loans, ABR Loans, FFR Loans, Canadian Prime Rate Loans or Canadian ABR Loans, as the case
may be, are made or maintained and for the account of which all payments of principal of,
and interest on, such Lender s LIBOR Loans, Fixed Rate Loans, ABR Loans, FFR Loans, Canadian
Prime Rate Loans or Canadian ABR Loans are made, as notified to the Administrative Agent
from time to time.

Letters of Credit   shall mean Canadian Letters of Credit and Revolving Letters
of Credit.

LIBOR   shall mean, with respect to each day during each Interest Period
pertaining to a LIBOR Borrowing, the rate per annum determined on the basis of the rate for
deposits in Dollars or the applicable Available Foreign Currency, as the case may be, for a
period equal to such Interest Period commencing on the first day of such Interest Period
appearing on Page 3750 of the Telerate screen (or any successor page thereto) as of 11:00
A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period. In the
event that such rate does not appear on Page 3750 of the Telerate screen (or otherwise on
such screen), the   LIBOR   shall be determined
by reference to such other comparable publicly available service for displaying
eurodollar rates as

13 

may be selected by the Administrative Agent or, in the absence of such
availability, by reference to the rate at which the Administrative Agent is offered Dollar
deposits or deposits in the applicable Available Foreign Currency, as the case may be, at or
about 11:00 A.M., New York City time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such
Interest Period in the interbank eurodollar market where its eurodollar and foreign currency
and exchange operations are then being conducted for delivery on the first day of such
Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein.

LIBOR Borrowing   shall mean a Borrowing comprised of LIBOR Loans.

LIBOR Canadian Revolving Loan   shall mean any Canadian Revolving Loan
denominated in Dollars bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to LIBOR in
accordance with the provisions of Article 2.

LIBOR Competitive Loan   shall mean any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a
rate determined by reference to LIBOR in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.

LIBOR Loan   shall mean any LIBOR Canadian Revolving Loan, LIBOR Competitive
Loan or LIBOR Revolving Credit Loan.

LIBOR Revolving Credit Loan   shall mean any Revolving Credit Loan bearing
interest at a rate determined by reference to LIBOR in accordance with the provisions of
Article 2.

LIBOR Spread   shall mean, at any date or any period of determination, the
LIBOR Spread that would be in effect on such date or during such period pursuant to the
chart set forth in Section 2.23 based on the rating of the Borrower s senior unsecured
non-credit enhanced long-term debt.

Lien   shall mean any mortgage, pledge, security interest, encumbrance, lien or
charge of any kind whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention
agreement, any lease in the nature thereof or agreement to give any financing statement
under the Uniform Commercial Code of any jurisdiction).

Loan   shall mean a Competitive Loan, a Revolving Credit Loan or a Canadian
Revolving Loan, whether made as a LIBOR Loan, an ABR Loan, an FFR Loan, a Canadian B/A, a
Canadian Prime Rate Loan, a Canadian ABR Loan or a Fixed Rate Loan, as permitted hereby.

Local Time   shall mean (i) in the case of any extension of credit under the
Revolving Commitments, New York City time, and (ii) in the case of any extension of credit
under the Canadian Revolving Commitment, Toronto time.

Margin   shall mean, as to any LIBOR Competitive Loan, the margin (expressed as
a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to four decimal places) to be added to,
or subtracted from, LIBOR in order to determine the interest rate applicable to such Loan,
as specified in the Competitive Bid relating to such Loan.

Margin Stock   shall be as defined in Regulation U of the Board.

Material Adverse Effect   shall mean a material adverse effect on the business,
assets, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries taken as a whole.

14 

        Material Subsidiary   shall mean any Subsidiary of the Borrower which together
with its Subsidiaries at the time of determination had assets constituting 10% or more of
Consolidated Assets, accounts for 10% or more of Consolidated Net Worth, or accounts for 10%
or more of the revenues of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the Rolling
Period immediately preceding the date of determination.

Moody s   shall mean Moody s Investors Service Inc.

Multiemployer Plan   shall mean a plan described in Section 3(37) of ERISA.

national currency unit   shall mean the unit of currency (other than a euro
unit) of a participating member state.

New Lender   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.13(e).

Obligations   shall mean the obligation of the Borrower and any Subsidiary
Borrower to make due and punctual payment of principal of, and interest on (including
post-petition interest, whether or not allowed), the Loans, the Facility Fee, the
Utilization Fee, reimbursement obligations in respect of Letters of Credit, and all other
monetary obligations of the Borrower and any Subsidiary Borrower to the Administrative
Agent, any Revolving Issuing Lender or any Lender under this Agreement or the Fundamental
Documents or with respect to any Interest Rate Protection Agreements entered into between
the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and any Lender.

Offered Increase Amount   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in
Section 2.13(d).

Parent Guaranty   shall mean the guaranty of the Subsidiary Borrower
Obligations provided by the Borrower pursuant to Article 9.

Participant   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.3(g).

participating member state    shall mean each state so described in any EMU
legislation.

PBGC   shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any successor
thereto.

Permitted Encumbrances   shall mean Liens permitted under Section 6.4.

Person   shall mean any natural person, corporation, division of a corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, estate,
unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.

PHH Home Loans Credit Agreement   shall mean the Revolving Credit Agreement,
dated as of September 30, 2005, among PHH Home Loans, LLC, as borrower, the lenders referred
to therein, Barclays Bank PLC, as syndication agent, and Bank of Montreal, as administrative
agent, as modified, supplemented, amended or restated from time to time.

Plan   shall mean an employee pension benefit plan described in Section 3(2) of
ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan which is sponsored by the Borrower or one of its
Subsidiaries.

Prime Rate   shall mean the rate per annum publicly announced by the entity
which is the Administrative Agent from time to time as its prime rate in effect at its
principal office in

15 

New York City. For purposes of this Agreement, any change in the
Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such
change in the Prime Rate is announced as effective.

Pro Forma Basis   shall mean, in connection with any transaction for which a
determination on a Pro Forma Basis is required to be made hereunder, that such determination
shall be made (i) after giving effect to any issuance of Indebtedness, any acquisition, any
disposition or any other transaction (as applicable) and (ii) assuming that the issuance of
Indebtedness, acquisition, disposition or other transaction and, if applicable, the
application of any proceeds therefrom, occurred at the beginning of the most recent Rolling
Period ending at least thirty (30) days prior to the date on which such issuance of
Indebtedness, acquisition, disposition or other transaction occurred.

Protesting Lender   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
10.9(b)(iii).

Reallocation Notice   shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section
2.13(g).

Reportable Event   shall mean any reportable event as defined in Section
4043(c) of ERISA, other than a reportable event as to which provision for 30-day notice to
the PBGC would be waived under applicable regulations had the regulations in effect on the
Closing Date been in effect on the date of occurrence of such reportable event.

Required Lenders   shall mean Lenders holding Commitments representing more
than 50% of the aggregate Commitments, except that for purposes of determining the Lenders
entitled to declare the principal of and the interest on the Loans and all other amounts
payable hereunder or thereunder to be forthwith due and payable pursuant to Article 7,
 Required Lenders  shall mean Lenders holding more than 50% of the aggregate principal
amount of the Loans and L/C Exposure at the time.

Revolving Commitment   shall mean, with respect to each Lender, its commitment
to make Revolving Credit Loans to the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower hereunder (other
than the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower), in an aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent amount
not to exceed at any time the amount set forth opposite such Lender s name under the heading
 Revolving Commitment  on Schedule 1.1A, as the same may be changed from time to time
pursuant to the terms hereof.

Revolving Commitment Increase Notice   shall have the meaning assigned to such
term in Section 2.13(d).

Revolving Credit Borrowing   shall mean a Borrowing consisting of simultaneous
Revolving Credit Loans from each of the Lenders.

Revolving Credit Borrowing Request   shall mean a request made pursuant to
Section 2.5 substantially in the form of Exhibit E-1.

Revolving Credit Loans   shall mean the Loans made by the Lenders to the
Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower (other than the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower) pursuant
to a notice given by the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower under Section 2.5. Each
Revolving Credit Loan shall be a LIBOR Revolving Credit Loan, an ABR Loan or an FFR Loan.

Revolving Credit Percentage   shall mean, with respect to each Lender, the
percentage which such Lender s Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the Total Revolving

16 

Commitment, or at any time after the Revolving Commitments have expired or terminated, the
percentage which such Lender s Revolving Commitment constituted of the Total Revolving
Commitment immediately prior to the time the Revolving Commitments expired or terminated.

Revolving Issuing Lender   shall mean JPMorgan Chase Bank and/or such other of
the Revolving Lenders as may be designated in writing by the Borrower and which agrees in
writing to act as such in accordance with the terms hereof.

Revolving L/C Exposure   shall mean, at any time, the amount expressed in
Dollars of the aggregate face amount of all drafts which may then or thereafter be presented
by beneficiaries under all Revolving Letters of Credit then outstanding plus (without
duplication) the face amount of all drafts which have been presented under Revolving Letters
of Credit but have not yet been paid or have been paid but not reimbursed.

Revolving Lender   shall mean each financial institutions whose name appears on
Schedule 1.1A under the heading  Revolving Lenders  and any assignee of a Revolving Lender
pursuant to Section 10.3(b).

Revolving Letters of Credit   shall mean the letters of credit issued pursuant
to Section 2.24.

Rolling Period   shall mean with respect to any fiscal quarter, such fiscal
quarter and the three immediately preceding fiscal quarters considered as a single
accounting period.

S P   shall mean Standard   Poor s Ratings Services, a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.

Securitization Indebtedness   shall mean Indebtedness incurred by any
structured bankruptcy-remote Subsidiary of the Borrower which does not permit or provide for
recourse to the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than such structured
bankruptcy-remote Subsidiary) or any property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of
the Borrower (other than the property or assets of such structured bankruptcy-remote
Subsidiary).

Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiary   shall mean PHH Caribbean Leasing, Inc. and
any Subsidiary engaged in the fleet-leasing management business that (i) is, at any time, a
party to one or more lease agreements with only one lessee, and (ii) finances, at any one
time, its investments in lease agreements or vehicles with only one lender (which lender may
be the Borrower if and to the extent that such loans and/or advances by the Borrower are not
prohibited hereby).

Statutory Reserves   shall mean a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the
numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus
the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency
or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board and any other
banking authority to which the Administrative Agent or any Lender is subject, for Eurocurrency Liabilities
(as defined in Regulation D of the Board) (or, at any time when such Lender may be required
by the Board or by any other Governmental Authority, whether within the United States or in
another relevant jurisdiction, to maintain reserves against any other category of
liabilities which includes deposits by reference to which LIBOR is determined as provided in
this Agreement or against any category of extensions of credit or other assets of such
Lender which includes any such LIBOR Loans). Such reserve percentages shall include those
imposed under Regulation D of the Board.

17 

LIBOR Loans shall be deemed to constitute
Eurocurrency Liabilities and as such shall be deemed to be subject to such reserve
requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exceptions or offsets which may be
available from time to time to any Lender under Regulation D of the Board. Statutory
Reserves shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in
any reserve percentage.

Subsidiary   shall mean with respect to any Person, any corporation,
association, joint venture, partnership or other business entity (whether now existing or
hereafter organized) of which at least a majority of the voting stock or other ownership
interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors (or the equivalent) is,
at the time as of which any determination is being made, owned or controlled by such Person
or one or more subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more subsidiaries of
such Person. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a  Subsidiary  or to
 Subsidiaries  in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the
Borrower.

Subsidiary Borrower   shall mean the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower and any
Subsidiary of the Borrower that becomes a party hereto pursuant to Section 10.9(b)(i) until
such time as such Subsidiary Borrower is removed as a party hereto pursuant to Section
10.9(b)(ii).

Subsidiary Borrower Obligations   shall mean the Obligations of any Subsidiary
Borrower.

Supermajority Lenders   shall mean Lenders which have Commitments representing
at least 75% of the aggregate Dollar Equivalent Amount of the aggregate Commitments.

Syndication Agent   shall mean Citicorp USA, Inc.

Tangible Net Worth   shall mean, at any date of determination, Consolidated Net
Worth minus the aggregate book value of all intangible assets of the Borrower and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date in accordance with GAAP.

Termination Date   shall mean January 6, 2011.

Total Revolving Commitment   shall mean, at any time, the aggregate amount of
the Lenders  Revolving Commitments as in effect at such time.

United States   shall mean the United States of America.

Utilization Fee   shall have the meaning given such term in Section 2.8.

Utilization Fee Percentage   shall mean, at any date or any period of
determination, the Utilization Fee Percentage that would be in effect on such date pursuant
to the chart set forth in Section 2.23 based on the rating of the Borrower s senior
unsecured non-credit enhanced long-term debt.

Working Day   shall mean any Business Day on which dealings in foreign
currencies and exchange between banks may be carried on in London, New York City and
Toronto.

2. THE LOANS

SECTION 2.1.     Commitments .

18 

(a) Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and relying upon the representations
and warranties herein set forth, each Revolving Lender agrees, severally and not jointly, to make
Revolving Credit Loans to the Borrower and any Subsidiary Borrower (other than the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower) in Dollars and any Available Foreign Currency, at any time and from time to
time on and after the Closing Date and until the earlier of the Termination Date and the
termination of the Revolving Commitment of such Lender, in an aggregate principal amount at any
time outstanding not to exceed such Lender s Revolving Commitment minus the sum of such Lender s
Revolving Credit Percentage of the current Revolving L/C Exposure plus the outstanding Dollar
Equivalent Amount by which the Competitive Loans outstanding at such time shall be deemed to have
used such Lender s Revolving Commitment pursuant to Section 2.19, subject, however, to the
condition that at no time shall (i) the sum of (A) the outstanding aggregate principal Dollar
Equivalent Amount of all Loans (other than Canadian Revolving Loans) plus (B) the then current
Revolving L/C Exposure exceed (ii) the Total Revolving Commitment. During the Commitment Period,
the Borrower and any Subsidiary Borrower (other than the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower) may use the
Revolving Commitments of the Lenders by borrowing, prepaying the Loans in whole or in part, and
reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.

(b) The Revolving Commitments of the Lenders may be terminated or reduced from time
to time pursuant to Section 2.13 or Article 7.

(c) Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and relying upon the representations
and warranties herein set forth, the Canadian Revolving Lender agrees to make Canadian Revolving
Loans to the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower in Dollars and Canadian Dollars, at any time and from
time to time on and after the Closing Date and until the earlier of the Termination Date and the
termination of the Canadian Revolving Commitment, in an aggregate principal amount at any time
outstanding not to exceed the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the Canadian Revolving Commitment,
subject, however, to the condition that at no time shall (i) the sum of (A) the outstanding
aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of all Canadian Revolving Loans plus (B) the then
current Canadian L/C Exposure exceed (ii) the Canadian Revolving Commitment. During the Commitment
Period, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower may use the Canadian Revolving Commitment by borrowing,
prepaying the Canadian Revolving Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with
the terms and conditions hereof.

(d) The Canadian Revolving Commitment may be terminated or reduced from time to time
pursuant to Section 2.13 or Article 7.

SECTION 2.2.     Loans .

(a) Each Revolving Credit Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of
Revolving Credit Loans made by the Revolving Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective
Revolving Commitments in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.5. Each
Competitive Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.4. Each
Canadian Revolving Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.6.
The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not in itself relieve
any other Lender of its obligation to lend hereunder (it being understood, however, that no Lender
shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make any Loan required to be made by
such other Lender). The Loans comprising any Borrowing shall be (i) in the case of Competitive
Loans and LIBOR Loans (other than LIBOR Canadian Revolving Loans), in an aggregate principal Dollar
Equivalent Amount that is an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii)
in the case of ABR Loans or FFR Loans, in an aggregate principal amount that is an integral
multiple of $500,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (or if less, an aggregate principal amount equal
to the remaining balance of the available Total Commitment).

19 

Canadian Revolving Loans (x) denominated in Canadian Dollars shall be in a principal amount that is an integral multiple of
C$500,000 and not less than C$1,000,000 and (y) denominated in Dollars shall be in a principal
amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000.

(b) Each Competitive Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of LIBOR Competitive
Loans or Fixed Rate Loans as the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower may request pursuant to
Section 2.4. Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of LIBOR Loans, ABR Loans
or FFR Loans, as the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower may request pursuant to Section 2.5;
 provided  that Revolving Credit Loans denominated in any Available Foreign Currency shall be
LIBOR Loans. Each Canadian Revolving Loan denominated in Canadian Dollars shall be a Canadian B/A
or a Canadian Prime Rate Loan. Each Canadian Revolving Loan denominated in Dollars shall be a
LIBOR Loan or a Canadian ABR Loan. Each Lender may at its option make any LIBOR Loan by causing
any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan,  provided  that
any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower or such Subsidiary
Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Borrowings of more
than one Interest Rate Type may be outstanding at the same time;  provided  that neither the
Borrower, nor any Subsidiary Borrower shall be entitled to request any Borrowing that, if made,
would result in an aggregate of more than 23 separate Loans (other than Competitive Loans) of any
Lender being outstanding hereunder at any one time. For purposes of the calculation required by
the immediately preceding sentence, LIBOR Loans (other than LIBOR Competitive Loans) having
different Interest Periods or having been made in different Currencies, regardless of whether they
commence on the same date, shall be considered separate Loans and all Loans of a single Interest
Rate Type made on a single date shall be considered a single Loan if such Loans have a common
Interest Period.

(c) Subject to Section 2.7, each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it
hereunder on the proposed date thereof by making funds available at the Funding Office no later
than 1:00 P.M. Local Time in the case of Loans other than ABR Loans, FFR Loans, Canadian Prime Rate
Loans or Canadian ABR Loans and 4:00 P.M. Local Time in the case of ABR Loans, FFR Loans, Canadian
Prime Rate Loans and Canadian ABR Loans, in each case, in immediately available funds. Upon
receipt of the funds to be made available by the Lenders to fund any Borrowing hereunder, the
Administrative Agent shall disburse such funds by depositing them into an account of the Borrower
or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent. Competitive Loans
shall be made by the Lender or Lenders whose Competitive Bids therefor are accepted pursuant to
Section 2.4 in the amounts so accepted and Loans shall be made by all the Lenders pro rata in
accordance with Section 2.1 and this Section 2.2. Canadian Revolving Loans shall be made by the
Canadian Revolving Lender in accordance with Section 2.1 and this Section 2.2 and, in the case of
Canadian B/As, with the provisions of Section 2.26.

(d) All ABR Loans and Canadian ABR Loans shall be denominated in Dollars. All
Canadian B/As and Canadian Prime Rate Loans shall be denominated in Canadian Dollars.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, neither the Borrower, nor
any Subsidiary Borrower shall be entitled to request any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested
with respect thereto would end after the Termination Date.

SECTION 2.3.     Use of Proceeds .

The proceeds of the Loans shall be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and
to backstop commercial paper issuances.

SECTION 2.4.     Competitive Bid Procedure .

20 

           (a) In order to request Competitive Bids, the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower
shall hand deliver or telecopy to the Administrative Agent a duly completed Competitive Bid Request
substantially in the form of Exhibit D-1, to be received by the Administrative Agent (i) in the
case of a LIBOR Competitive Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, four Working
Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing and (ii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not
later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, one Business Day before a proposed Competitive Borrowing.
Each Competitive Bid Request shall specify the requested Currency. No ABR Loan shall be requested
in, or made pursuant to, a Competitive Bid Request. A Competitive Bid Request that does not
conform substantially to the format of Exhibit D-1 may be rejected in the Administrative Agent s
sole discretion, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower or such Subsidiary
Borrower of such rejection by telecopier. Such request for Competitive Bids shall in each case
refer to this Agreement and specify (i) whether the Borrowing then being requested is to be a LIBOR
Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing, (ii) the date of such Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day
in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing and a Working Day in the case of a LIBOR Competitive
Borrowing) and the aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent Amount thereof, which shall be in a
minimum principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of $10,000,000 and in an integral multiple of
$5,000,000, and (iii) the Interest Period with respect thereto (which may not end after the
Termination Date). Promptly after its receipt of a Competitive Bid Request that is not rejected as
aforesaid, the Administrative Agent shall invite by telecopier (in the form set forth in Exhibit
D-2) the Lenders to bid, on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, to make
Competitive Loans pursuant to such Competitive Bid Request.

(b) Each Lender may, in its sole discretion, make one or more Competitive Bids to
the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower responsive to a Competitive Bid Request. Each Competitive
Bid by a Lender must be received by the Administrative Agent via telecopier, substantially in the
form of Exhibit D-3, (i) in the case of a LIBOR Competitive Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m.,
New York City time, three Working Days before a proposed Competitive Borrowing and (ii) in the case
of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed
Competitive Borrowing. Multiple Competitive Bids will be accepted by the Administrative Agent.
Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the format of Exhibit D-3 may be rejected by
the Administrative Agent after conferring with, and upon the instruction of, the Borrower or the
applicable Subsidiary Borrower, and the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lender making such
nonconforming Competitive Bid of such rejection as soon as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall
refer to this Agreement and specify (i) the principal Dollar Equivalent Amount (which shall be in a
minimum principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of $10,000,000 and in an integral multiple of $5,000,000
and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by the
Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower) of the Competitive Loan or Loans that the
applicable Lender is willing to make to the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate or Rates at
which such Lender is prepared to make such Competitive Loan or Loans and (iii) the Interest Period
or Interest Periods with respect thereto. If any Lender shall elect not to make a Competitive Bid,
such Lender shall so notify the Administrative Agent via telecopier (i) in the case of LIBOR
Competitive Loans, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, three Working Days before a
proposed Competitive Borrowing and (ii) in the case of Fixed Rate Loans, not later than 9:30 a.m.,
New York City time, on the day of a proposed Competitive Borrowing;  provided  that failure
by any Lender to give such notice shall not cause such Lender to be obligated to make any
Competitive Loan as part of such proposed Competitive Borrowing. A Competitive Bid submitted by a
Lender pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall be irrevocable.

(c) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower or the applicable
Subsidiary Borrower by telecopier of all the Competitive Bids made, the Competitive Bid Rate or
Rates and the principal amount of each Competitive Loan in respect of which a Competitive Bid was
made and the identity of the Lender that made each Competitive Bid. The Administrative Agent shall
send a copy

21 

of all Competitive Bids to the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower for its
records as soon as practicable after completion of the bidding process set forth in this Section
2.4.

(d) The Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower may in its sole and absolute
discretion, subject only to the provisions of this paragraph (d), accept or reject any Competitive
Bid referred to in paragraph (c) above. The Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall
notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, promptly confirmed by telecopier in the form of a
Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject
any or all of the Competitive Bids referred to in paragraph (c) above, (i) in the case of a LIBOR
Competitive Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, three Working Days before a
proposed Competitive Borrowing and (ii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:30
a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Competitive Borrowing;  provided  that (A)
the failure by the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower to give such notice shall be
deemed to be a rejection of all the Competitive Bids referred to in paragraph (c) above, (B)
neither the Borrower, nor any Subsidiary Borrower shall accept a Competitive Bid made at a
particular Competitive Bid Rate if the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower has decided to reject a
Competitive Bid made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (C) the aggregate amount of the Competitive
Bids accepted by the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall not exceed the principal
amount specified in the Competitive Bid Request, (D) if the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower
shall accept a Competitive Bid or Competitive Bids made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate but
the amount of such Competitive Bid or Competitive Bids shall cause the total amount of Competitive
Bids to be accepted by the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower to exceed the amount
specified in the Competitive Bid Request, then the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower
shall accept a portion of such Competitive Bid or Competitive Bids in an amount equal to the amount
specified in the Competitive Bid Request less the amount of all other Competitive Bids accepted at
lower Competitive Bid Rates with respect to such Competitive Bid Request (it being understood that
acceptance in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro
rata in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid at such Competitive Bid Rate), (E)
except pursuant to clause (D) above, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan
unless such Competitive Loan is in a minimum principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of $10,000,000 and
an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and (F) neither the Borrower, nor any Subsidiary Borrower may
accept Competitive Bids for Competitive Loans in any currency other than the currency specified in
the related Competitive Bid Request; and  provided ,  further , that if a Competitive
Loan must be in an amount less than the Dollar Equivalent Amount of $10,000,000 because of the
provisions of clause (D) above, such Competitive Loan shall be in a minimum principal Dollar
Equivalent Amount of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata
allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple Competitive Bids at a particular Competitive Bid
Rate pursuant to clause (D), the amounts shall be rounded to the Dollar Equivalent Amount of
integral multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner that shall be in the discretion of the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower.
A notice given by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to this paragraph (d) shall be
irrevocable.

(e) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each bidding Lender whether its
Competitive Bid has been accepted (and if so, in what amount and at what Competitive Bid Rate) by
telecopy sent by the Administrative Agent, and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound,
subject to the other applicable conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which
its Competitive Bid has been accepted in the applicable Currency.

(f) If the Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its
capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to the Borrower or the
applicable Subsidiary Borrower one quarter of an hour earlier than the latest time at which the
other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Administrative Agent pursuant to
paragraph (b) above.

22 

(g) All notices required by this Section 2.4 shall be given in accordance with
Section 10.1.

SECTION 2.5.     Revolving Credit Borrowing Procedure .

In order to effect a Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary
Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy to the Administrative Agent a Borrowing notice
substantially in the form of Exhibit E-1 (a) in the case of a Borrowing of LIBOR Revolving Credit
Loans, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, (i) four Working Days before a proposed
Borrowing denominated in any Available Foreign Currency and (ii) three Working Days before a
proposed Borrowing denominated in Dollars, and (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing or an FFR
Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Borrowing. No
Fixed Rate Loan or LIBOR Competitive Loan shall be requested or made pursuant to a Revolving Credit
Borrowing Request. Such notice shall be irrevocable and shall in each case specify (A) whether the
Borrowing then being requested is to be a Borrowing of LIBOR Revolving Credit Loans, an ABR
Borrowing or an FFR Borrowing, (B) the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing (which shall be a
Working Day) and the amount thereof and (C) if such Borrowing is to be a Borrowing of LIBOR
Revolving Credit Loans, the Interest Period and Currency with respect thereto. If no election as
to the Interest Rate Type of a Revolving Credit Borrowing is specified in any such notice, then the
requested Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period with respect
to any Borrowing of LIBOR Revolving Credit Loans is specified in any such notice, then the Borrower
or such Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month s
duration. If no Currency with respect to any Borrowing of LIBOR Revolving Credit Loans is
specified in any such notice, then the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have
selected Dollars. If the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall not have given
notice in accordance with this Section 2.5 of its election to refinance a Revolving Credit
Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing, then the Borrower
or such Subsidiary Borrower shall (unless such Borrowing is repaid at the end of such Interest
Period) be deemed to have given notice of an election to refinance such Borrowing with an ABR
Borrowing. The Administrative Agent shall promptly advise the Revolving Lenders of any notice
given pursuant to this Section 2.5 and of each such Lender s portion of the requested Revolving
Credit Borrowing.

SECTION 2.6.     Canadian Revolving Borrowing Procedure .

In order to request a Canadian Revolving Loan, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall hand
deliver or telecopy to the Canadian Revolving Lender a Borrowing notice substantially in the form
of Exhibit E-2 (a) in the case of a LIBOR Loan, not later than 2:00 p.m., Toronto time, three
Working Days before a proposed Loan, (b) in the case of a Canadian B/A, not later than 2:00 p.m.,
Toronto time, two Working Days before a proposed Loan, and (c) in the case of a Canadian Prime Rate
Loan or Canadian ABR Loan, not later than 2:00 p.m., Toronto time, on the day of a proposed Loan.
No Fixed Rate Loan or LIBOR Competitive Loan shall be requested or made pursuant to a Canadian
Revolving Borrowing Request. Such notice shall be irrevocable and shall in each case specify (A)
whether the Loan then being requested is to be a Canadian B/A, a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, a
Canadian ABR Loan or a LIBOR Loan, (B) the date of such Loan (which shall be a Working Day) and the
amount thereof, (C) the Currency with respect thereto, (D) if such Loan is to be a Canadian B/A,
the Contract Period with respect thereto and (E) if such Loan is to be a LIBOR Loan, the Interest
Period with respect thereto. If no election as to the Interest Rate Type is specified in any such
notice for Loans denominated in Canadian Dollars, then the requested Loan shall be a Canadian Prime
Rate Loan. If no election as to the Interest Rate Type is specified in any such notice for Loans
denominated in Dollars, then the requested Loan shall be a Canadian ABR Loan. If no Contract
Period with respect to any Canadian B/A is specified in any such notice, then the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have selected a Contract Period of

23 

one month s duration. If no Interest Period with respect to any LIBOR Loan is specified in any such notice, then the
Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month s
duration. If no Currency with respect to any Canadian Revolving Loan is specified in any such
notice, then the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have selected Canadian Dollars.
If the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall not have given notice in accordance with this Section 2.6
of its election to refinance a Canadian Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Contract Period or
Interest Period, as the case may be, in effect for such Loan, then the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower
shall (unless such Loan is repaid at the end of such Contract Period or Interest Period) be deemed
to have given notice of an election to refinance such Borrowing with a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, in
the case of a Canadian Dollar-denominated Loan, or Canadian ABR Loan, in the case of a
Dollar-denominated Loan. The Canadian Revolving Lender shall promptly advise the Administrative
Agent of any notice given pursuant to this Section 2.6.

SECTION 2.7.     Refinancings .

The Borrower and any Subsidiary Borrower may refinance all or any part of any Borrowing made
by it with a Borrowing of the same or a different Interest Rate Type made pursuant to Section 2.4
or pursuant to a notice under Section 2.5 or 2.6, subject to the conditions and limitations set
forth herein and elsewhere in this Agreement, including refinancings of Competitive Borrowings with
Revolving Credit Borrowings in Dollars and Revolving Credit Borrowings in Dollars with Competitive
Borrowings;  provided  that at any time after the occurrence, and during the continuation, of
a Default or an Event of Default, (a) a Revolving Credit Borrowing of Dollars or portion thereof
may only be refinanced with an ABR Borrowing, (b) a Revolving Credit Borrowing of any Available
Foreign Currency shall be repaid in full at the end of the Interest Period in effect for such
Borrower, (c) a Canadian B/A may only be refinanced with a Canadian Prime Rate Loan and (d) a LIBOR
Canadian Revolving Loan may only be refinanced with a Canadian ABR Loan. Any Borrowing or part
thereof so refinanced shall be deemed to be repaid in accordance with Section 2.9 with the proceeds
of a new Borrowing or Canadian Revolving Loan, as the case may be, hereunder and the proceeds of
the new Borrowing or Canadian Revolving Loan, as the case may be, to the extent they do not exceed
the principal amount of the Borrowing or Loan being refinanced, shall not be paid by the applicable
Lenders to the Administrative Agent or by the Administrative Agent or the Canadian Revolving
Lender, as the case may be, to the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.2(c);  provided  that (A) if the principal amount
extended by a Lender in a refinancing of a Revolving Credit Borrowing is greater than the
principal amount extended by such Lender in the Revolving Credit Borrowing being refinanced, then
such Lender shall pay such difference to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Lenders
described in clause (B) below, (B) if the principal amount extended by a Lender in the Revolving
Credit Borrowing being refinanced is greater than the principal amount being extended by such
Lender in the refinancing, the Administrative Agent shall return the difference to such Lender out
of amounts received pursuant to clause (A) above, and (C) to the extent any Lender fails to pay the
Administrative Agent amounts due from it pursuant to clause (A) above, any Loan or portion thereof
being refinanced with such amounts shall not be deemed repaid in accordance with Section 2.9 and,
to the extent of such failure, the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall pay such
amount to the Administrative Agent as required by Section 2.11; and (D) to the extent the Borrower
or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower fails to pay to the Administrative Agent any amounts due in
accordance with Section 2.9 as a result of the failure of a Lender to pay the Administrative Agent
any amounts due as described in clause (C) above, the portion of any refinanced Loan deemed not
repaid shall be deemed to be outstanding solely to the Lender which has failed to pay the
Administrative Agent amounts due from it pursuant to clause (A) above to the full extent of such
Lender s portion of such Loan.

SECTION 2.8.     Fees .

24 

           (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to each Lender, through the Administrative Agent, on
each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, and on the date on which the Commitment of
such Lender shall be terminated as provided herein, a facility fee (a   Facility Fee  ) at
the rate per annum from time to time in effect in accordance with Section 2.23, on the amount of
the Commitment of such Lender, whether used or unused, during the preceding quarter (or shorter
period commencing with the Closing Date, or ending with the Termination Date or any date on which
the Commitment of such Lender shall be terminated). All Facility Fees shall be computed on the
basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a year of 360 days. The Facility Fee due to each
Lender shall commence to accrue on the Closing Date, shall be payable in arrears and shall cease to
accrue on the earlier of the Termination Date and the termination of the Commitment of such Lender
as provided herein;  provided , that if any Lender continues to have any outstanding Loans
after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue on the daily
aggregate principal amount of such Lender s Loans for each day from and including the date on which
its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any
outstanding Loans.

(b) The Borrower agrees to pay to each Lender, through the Administrative Agent, on
each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, and on the date on which the Commitment of
such Lender shall be terminated as provided herein, a utilization fee (a   Utilization Fee  )
at a rate per annum equal to the Utilization Fee Percentage for each Excess Utilization Day, which
fee shall accrue on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) for
each Excess Utilization Day during the period from and including the Closing Date to but excluding
the date on which such Commitment terminates;  provided  that, if such Lender continues to
have any outstanding Loans after its Commitment terminates, then such Utilization Fee shall
continue to accrue on the daily aggregate principal amount of such Lender s Loans for each Excess
Utilization Day from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the
date on which such Lender ceases to have any outstanding Loans. All Utilization Fees shall be
computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a year of 360 days and shall be
payable in arrears.

(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent the fees in the amounts
and on the dates as set forth in any fee agreements with the Administrative Agent and to perform
any other obligations contained therein.

(d) All fees shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the
Administrative Agent for distribution, if and as appropriate, among the Lenders. Once paid, none
of the fees shall be refundable under any circumstances.

SECTION
2.9.     Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt .

(a) The Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay
to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Revolving Lender, the then unpaid principal
amount of each Revolving Credit Loan made to it on the Termination Date. The Borrower and each
Subsidiary Borrower hereby further agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of
each Revolving Lender, interest on the unpaid principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loans made
to it from time to time outstanding from the date hereof until payment in full thereof at the rates
per annum, and on the dates, set forth in Section 2.10.

(b) The Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower unconditionally promises to pay to the
Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender that makes a Competitive Loan to it, on the
last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Competitive Loan, the principal amount of such
Competitive Loan. The Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower further unconditionally promises to
pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender that makes a Competitive Loan to
it, interest on

25 

each such Competitive Loan made to it for the period from and including the date of
Borrowing of such Competitive Loan on the unpaid principal amount thereof from time to time
outstanding at the applicable rate per annum determined as provided in, and payable as specified
in, Section 2.10.

(c) The Canadian Subsidiary Borrower unconditionally promises to pay to the Canadian
Revolving Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Canadian Revolving Loan made to it on the
Termination Date. The Canadian Subsidiary Borrower hereby further agrees to pay to the Canadian
Revolving Lender interest on the unpaid principal amount of the Canadian Revolving Loans made to it
from time to time outstanding from the date hereof until payment in full thereof at the rates per
annum, and on the dates, set forth in Section 2.10.

(d) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or
accounts evidencing indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower to such Lender
resulting from each Loan of such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and
interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time under this Agreement.

(e) The Administrative Agent shall maintain the Register pursuant to Section
10.3(e), and a subaccount therein for each Lender, in which shall be recorded (i) the amount of
each Loan made hereunder, the Interest Rate Type thereof and each Interest Period, if any,
applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due
and payable from each Borrower or Subsidiary Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) both the
amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrower or any
Subsidiary Borrower and each Lender s share thereof.

(f) The entries made in the Register and the accounts of each Lender maintained
pursuant to Section 2.9(d) shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be  prima 
 facie  evidence of the
existence and amounts of the obligations of the Borrower or Subsidiary Borrower therein
recorded;  provided  that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain
the Register or any such account, or any error therein, shall not in any manner affect the
obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower to repay (with applicable interest) the Loans
made to the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower by such Lender in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement.

SECTION 2.10.     Interest on Loans .

(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11, the Loans comprising each LIBOR
Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of each LIBOR Canadian
Revolving Loan or LIBOR Revolving Credit Loan, LIBOR for the Interest Period in effect for such
Borrowing plus the applicable LIBOR Spread from time to time in effect and (ii) in the case of each
LIBOR Competitive Loan, LIBOR for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus or minus
the Margin offered by the Lender making such Loan and accepted by the Borrower or the applicable
Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to Section 2.4.

(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11, the Loans comprising each ABR
Borrowing shall bear interest (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a
year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be when determined by reference to the Prime Rate and over
a year of 360 days at all other times) at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate.

(c) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11, the Loans comprising each FFR
Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum (computed on the basis of the actual number of
days elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be) equal to the Federal Funds Rate
plus the applicable FFR Spread from time to time in effect.

26 

(d) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11, each Canadian Prime Rate Loan shall
bear interest at a rate per annum (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over
a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be) equal to the Canadian Prime Rate.

(e) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11, each Canadian ABR Loan shall bear
interest at a rate per annum (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a
year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be) equal to the Canadian Alternate Base Rate.

(f) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11, each Canadian B/A shall be subject to
an Acceptance Fee (computed on a per annum basis the basis on the actual number of days elapsed
over a year of 360 days) in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.26.

(g) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11, each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear
interest at a rate per annum (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a
year of 360 days) equal to the fixed rate of interest offered by the Lender making such Loan and
accepted by the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to Section 2.4.

(h) Interest on each Loan (other than Canadian B/As) shall be payable in arrears on
each Interest Payment Date applicable to such Loan. The LIBOR, Federal Funds Rate, Alternate Base
Rate, Canadian Prime Rate or Canadian Alternate Base Rate for each Interest Period or day within an
Interest Period shall be determined by the Administrative Agent and such determination shall be
conclusive absent manifest error. The Acceptance Fee and Discount Rate applicable to Canadian B/As
shall be determined by the Canadian Revolving Lender and such determination shall be conclusive absent
manifest error.

(i) For the purposes of disclosure under the Interest Act (Canada) and for this
Agreement, whenever interest to be paid hereunder is to be calculated on the basis of 360 days or
any other period of time that is less than a calendar year, the yearly rate of interest to which
the rate determined pursuant to such calculation is equivalent is the rate so determined multiplied
by the actual number of days in the calendar year in which the same is to be ascertained and
divided by 360 or such other number of days in such period, as the case may be.

SECTION 2.11.     Interest on Overdue Amounts .

If the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower shall default in the payment of the principal of,
or interest on, any Loan or any other amount becoming due hereunder, the Borrower or such
Subsidiary Borrower shall on demand from time to time pay interest, to the extent permitted by
Applicable Law, on such defaulted amount up to (but not including) the date of actual payment
(after as well as before judgment) at a rate per annum computed on the basis of the actual number
of days elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as applicable, in the case of amounts bearing
interest determined by reference to the Prime Rate or the Canadian Prime Rate and a year of 360
days in all other cases, equal to (a) in the case of the remainder of the then current Interest
Period for any LIBOR Loan, Fixed Rate Loan, the rate applicable to such Loan under Section 2.10
plus 2% per annum and (b) in the case of any ABR Loan, FFR Loan, Canadian B/A, Canadian Prime Rate
Loan or Canadian ABR Loan, the rate applicable to such Loan under Section 2.10 plus 2% per annum.

SECTION 2.12.     Alternate Rate of Interest .

In the event the Administrative Agent shall have determined that deposits in Dollars or the
applicable Available Foreign Currency in the amount of the requested principal amount of any LIBOR
Loan are not generally available in the London Interbank Market (or such other interbank
eurocurrency

27 

market where the foreign currency and exchange operations in respect of Dollars or
such applicable Available Foreign Currency, as the case may be, are then being conducted for
delivery on the first day of such Interest Period), or, in the case of LIBOR Loans, that the rate
at which such deposits are being offered will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to any
Lender of making or maintaining its portion of such LIBOR Loans during such Interest Period, or
that reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining LIBOR, the Administrative Agent shall, as soon
as practicable thereafter, give written or telecopier notice of such determination to the Borrower
and the Lenders. In the event of any such determination, until the Administrative Agent shall have
determined that circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (a) any request by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower for a LIBOR Competitive Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.4 shall
be of no force and effect and shall be denied by the Administrative Agent and (b) any request by
the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower for a LIBOR Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.5 shall be
deemed to be a request for an ABR Loan. Each determination by the Administrative Agent hereunder
shall be conclusive absent manifest error.

SECTION 2.13.     Termination and Reduction of Commitments; Increase of Revolving
Commitments; Reallocation of Commitments .

(a) The Commitments of all of the Lenders shall be automatically terminated on the
Termination Date.

(b) Subject to Sections 2.14(b) and (c), upon at least three Business Days  prior
irrevocable written or telecopy notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify
each Lender), the Borrower may at any time in whole permanently terminate, or from time to time in
part permanently reduce, the Total Revolving Commitment or the Canadian Revolving Commitment, or
both;  provided  that (i) each partial reduction shall be in an integral multiple of
$1,000,000 and in a minimum principal amount of $10,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not be
entitled to make any such termination or reduction that would reduce (A) the Total Revolving
Commitment to an amount less than the sum of the aggregate outstanding principal Dollar Equivalent
Amount of the Loans (other than Canadian Revolving Loans) plus the then current Revolving L/C
Exposure or (B) the Canadian Revolving Commitment to an amount less than the sum of the aggregate
outstanding principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of the Canadian Revolving Loans plus the then
current Canadian L/C Exposure.

(c) Each reduction in the Total Revolving Commitment hereunder shall be made ratably
among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitments. The Borrower shall
pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders on the date of each termination or
reduction in the Total Revolving Commitment, the Facility Fees and the Utilization Fees on the
amount of the Revolving Commitments so terminated or reduced accrued to the date of such
termination or reduction.

(d) In the event that the Borrower wishes to increase the Total Revolving Commitment at
any time when no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, it shall notify the
Administrative Agent in writing of the amount (the   Offered Increase Amount  ) of such
proposed increase (such notice, a   Revolving Commitment Increase Notice  ), and the
Administrative Agent shall notify each Revolving Lender of such proposed increase and provide such
additional information regarding such proposed increase as any Revolving Lender may reasonably
request. The Borrower may, at its election and with the consent of the Administrative Agent and
the Revolving Issuing Lenders (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld), (i) offer one or
more of the Revolving Lenders the opportunity to participate in all or a portion of the Offered
Increase Amount pursuant to paragraph (f) below and/or (ii) offer one or more additional banks,
financial institutions or other entities the opportunity to participate in all or a portion of the
Offered Increase Amount pursuant to paragraph (e) below. Each Revolving Commitment Increase Notice
shall specify which Revolving Lenders and/or banks, financial institutions or other entities the
Borrower desires to participate in such Revolving Commitment increase.

28 

The Borrower or, if
requested by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, will notify such Lenders and/or banks,
financial institutions or other entities of such offer.

(e) Any additional bank, financial institution or other entity which the Borrower
selects to offer participation in the increased Revolving Commitments and which elects to become a
party to this Agreement and provide a Revolving Commitment in an amount so offered and accepted by
it pursuant to Section 2.13(d)(ii) shall execute a New Lender Supplement with the Borrower and the
Administrative Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit F, whereupon such bank, financial
institution or other entity (herein called a   New Lender  ) shall become a Revolving Lender
for all purposes and to the same extent as if originally a party hereto and shall be bound by and
entitled to the benefits of this Agreement, and Schedule 1.1A shall be deemed to be amended to add
the name and Revolving Commitment of such New Lender,  provided  that the Revolving
Commitment of any such new Lender shall be in an amount not less than $5,000,000.

(f) Any Lender which accepts an offer to it by the Borrower to increase its
Revolving Commitment pursuant to Section 2.13(d)(i) shall, in each case, execute a Revolving
Commitment Increase Supplement with the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, substantially in the
form of Exhibit G, whereupon such Lender shall be bound by and entitled to the benefits of this
Agreement with respect to the full amount of its Revolving Commitment as so increased, and Schedule
1.1A shall be deemed to be amended to so increase the Revolving Commitment of such Lender.

(g) The Borrower and the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower may, from time to time, but
not more than once per calendar quarter, from and after the Closing Date until the earlier of the
Termination Date and the termination of the Canadian Revolving Commitment, upon giving an
irrevocable joint written notice (each, a   Reallocation Notice  ) to the Canadian Revolving
Lender and the Administrative Agent at least ten Working Days prior to the beginning of the next
following calendar quarter,
temporarily reduce, in whole or in part, or increase, the Canadian Revolving Commitment. Any
reductions or increases in the Canadian Revolving Commitment shall take effect on the first day of
the next following calendar quarter. Each reduction or increase in the Canadian Revolving
Commitment shall result in an automatic corresponding increase or reduction in the Canadian
Revolving Lender s Revolving Commitment;  provided  that the amount of the Canadian Revolving
Commitment shall not, at any time, (i) be reduced to an amount that is less than the sum of (A) the
outstanding aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of all Canadian Revolving Loans plus (B)
the then current Canadian L/C Exposure or (ii) exceed $80,000,000.

(h) The ability of the Borrower and the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower to reallocate
the Revolving Commitments and the Canadian Revolving Commitment in accordance with this Section
2.13 shall be subject to (i) the prior written consent of the Canadian Revolving Lender to each
such reallocation, (ii) the representations and warranties set forth in (A) Article 3 (other than
those set forth in Section 3.5), in the case of the Borrower and (B) Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 as
to the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower, in the case of the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower, being true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such reallocation with the same
effect as though made on and as of such date and (iii) at the time of and immediately following
such reduction or increase, no Event of Default or Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Reallocation Notice shall specify the amount (expressed in Dollars) of any reduction or
increase in the Canadian Revolving Commitment and the corresponding increase or reduction in the
Revolving Credit Commitments. Each reallocation requested under this Section 2.13 shall be in a
minimum aggregate principal amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than
$5,000,000 (or, if less, (x) the remaining amount of the Canadian Revolving Commitment then in
effect or (y) an amount which would result in the Canadian Revolving Commitment exceeding
$80,000,000).

29 

(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.13, (i) in no event
shall any transaction effected pursuant to this Section 2.13 cause the Total Revolving Commitment
to exceed $1,500,000,000 and (ii) no Lender shall have any obligation to increase its Revolving
Commitment unless it agrees to do so in its sole discretion.

SECTION 2.14.     Prepayment of Loans .

(a) Prior to the Termination Date, the Borrower or any applicable Subsidiary
Borrower shall have the right at any time, and from time to time, to prepay any Revolving Credit
Borrowing or Canadian Revolving Loan, in whole or in part (other than in the case of a Canadian
B/A), subject to the requirements of Section 2.18 but otherwise without premium or penalty, upon
prior written or telecopy notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify each
Revolving Lender) (or to the Canadian Revolving Lender, in the case of any prepayment of Canadian
Revolving Loans) before 2:00 p.m. Local Time of at least one Business Day in the case of an ABR
Loan, FFR Loan, Canadian Prime Rate Loan or Canadian ABR Loan, and of at least three Working Days
in the case of a LIBOR Loan;  provided  that each such partial prepayment shall be in a
minimum aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of (i) $1,000,000 or a whole multiple in
excess thereof, in the case of Revolving Credit Loans and (ii) $500,000 or a whole multiple in
excess thereof, in the case of Canadian Revolving Loans. Neither the Borrower, nor any Subsidiary
Borrower shall have the right to prepay any Competitive Borrowing without the consent of the
relevant Lender. Any prepayment of a Canadian B/A shall be for the full face amount thereof, which
prepayment shall be made in full satisfaction of the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower s reimbursement
obligation in respect of such Canadian B/A.

(b) On any date when the sum of the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the aggregate
outstanding Loans (other than Canadian Revolving Loans) (after giving effect to any Borrowings
effected on such date) plus the then current Revolving L/C Exposure exceeds the Total Revolving
Commitment, the Borrower and/or any applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall make a mandatory
prepayment of the Loans in such amount as may be necessary so that the Dollar Equivalent Amount of
the aggregate amount of outstanding Loans (other than Canadian Revolving Loans) plus the then
current Revolving L/C Exposure after giving effect to such prepayment does not exceed the Total
Revolving Commitment then in effect. Any prepayments required by this paragraph shall be applied
 first  to outstanding ABR Loans and  second  to FFR Loans, in each case, up to the
full amount thereof before they are applied to outstanding LIBOR Loans.

(c) On any date when the sum of the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the aggregate
outstanding Canadian Revolving Loans (after giving effect to any Loans effected on such date) plus
the then current Canadian L/C Exposure exceeds the Canadian Revolving Commitment, the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower shall make a mandatory prepayment of the Loans in such amount as may be
necessary so that the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the aggregate amount of outstanding Canadian
Revolving Loans plus the then current Canadian L/C Exposure after giving effect to such prepayment
does not exceed the Canadian Revolving Commitment then in effect. Any prepayments required by this
paragraph shall be applied  first  to outstanding Canadian Prime Rate Loans and
 second  to outstanding Canadian ABR Loans, up to the full amount thereof before they are
applied to outstanding Canadian B/As and LIBOR Loans;  provided  that, in lieu of applying
prepaid amounts to outstanding Canadian B/As, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower may deposit cash or
Cash Equivalents in a Canadian Cash Collateral Account in an amount equal to the amount by which
the principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of any outstanding Canadian B/As exceeds the Canadian
Revolving Commitment then in effect after giving effect to such other prepayments.

(d) On any date the Borrower shall cease to own, directly or through wholly-owned
Subsidiaries, all of the capital stock of any Subsidiary Borrower, free and clear of any direct or
indirect

30 

Liens, such Subsidiary Borrower shall (i) make a mandatory prepayment of all outstanding
Loans made to it and (ii) deposit cash in a Cash Collateral Account in an amount equal at all times
to the full amount of the Revolving L/C Exposure from Revolving Letters of Credit issued for its
account or Canadian L/C Exposure from Canadian Letters of Credit issued for its account.

(e) Each notice of prepayment pursuant to this Section 2.14 shall specify the
specific Borrowing(s), the prepayment date and the aggregate principal amount of each Borrowing to
be prepaid, shall be irrevocable and shall commit the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary
Borrower to prepay such Borrowing(s) by the amount stated therein. All prepayments under this
Section 2.14 shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the principal amount being prepaid to the
date of prepayment and any amounts due pursuant to Section 2.18.

SECTION 2.15.     Eurocurrency Reserve Costs .

The Borrower and any applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for
the account of each Lender (or to the Canadian Revolving Lender, in the case of LIBOR Canadian
Revolving Loans), so long as such Lender shall be required under regulations of the Board to
maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of, or including, Eurocurrency
Liabilities (as defined in Regulation D of the Board) (or, at any time when such Lender may be
required by the Board or by any other Governmental Authority, whether within the United States or
in another relevant jurisdiction, to maintain reserves against any other category of liabilities
which includes deposits by
reference to which LIBOR is determined as provided in this Agreement or against any category
of extensions of credit or other assets of such Lender which includes any such LIBOR Loans),
additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each LIBOR Loan made to the Borrower or such
Subsidiary Borrower by such Lender, from the date of such Loan until such Loan is paid in full, at
an interest rate per annum equal at all times during the Interest Period for such Loan to the
remainder obtained by subtracting (i) LIBOR for such Interest Period from (ii) the rate obtained by
multiplying LIBOR as referred to in clause (i) above by the Statutory Reserves of such Lender for
such Interest Period. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Lender and notified to
the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) not later than five Business Days before the
next Interest Payment Date for such Loan, and such additional interest so notified to the Borrower
or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower by any Lender shall be payable to the Administrative Agent
for the account of such Lender (or to the Canadian Revolving Lender, in the case of LIBOR Canadian
Revolving Loans) on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan.

SECTION 2.16.     Reserve Requirements; Change in Circumstances .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if after the date of this Agreement
any change in Applicable Law or regulation or in the interpretation or administration thereof by
any Governmental Authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof (whether or
not having the force of law) (i) shall subject any Lender to, or increase the net amount of, any
tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or withholding with respect to any Loan, or shall
change the basis of taxation of payments to any Lender of the principal of or interest on any Loan
made by such Lender or any other fees or amounts payable hereunder (other than (x) taxes imposed on
the overall net income of such Lender by the jurisdiction in which such Lender has its principal
office or its applicable Lending Office or by any political subdivision or taxing authority therein
(or any tax which is enacted or adopted by such jurisdiction, political subdivision or taxing
authority as a direct substitute for any such taxes) or (y) any tax, assessment, or other
governmental charge that would not have been imposed but for the failure of any Lender to comply
with any certification, information, documentation or other reporting requirement), (ii) shall
impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against
assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender, or (iii) shall impose on any

31 

Lender or eurocurrency market any other condition affecting this Agreement or any
Loan made by such Lender, and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to
such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan or to reduce the amount of any sum received or
receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) in respect
thereof by an amount deemed in good faith by such Lender to be material, then the Borrower or the
applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall pay such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such
Lender for such increase or reduction to such Lender upon demand by such Lender.

(b) If, after the date of this Agreement, any Lender shall have determined in good
faith that the adoption after the date hereof of or any change after the date hereof in any
applicable law, rule, regulation or guideline regarding capital adequacy, or any change in the
interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable
agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Lender (or
any Lending Office of such Lender) with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy
(whether or not having the force of law) of any such Governmental Authority, central bank or
comparable agency, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender s
capital or on the capital of such Lender s holding company, if any, as a consequence of its
Obligations hereunder to a level below that which such Lender (or its holding company) could have
achieved but for such applicability, adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such
Lender s policies or the policies of its holding company, as the case may be, with
respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then, from
time to time, the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall pay to the Administrative
Agent for the account of such Lender (or its holding company) such additional amount or amounts as
will compensate such Lender for such reduction upon demand by such Lender.

(c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth in reasonable detail (i) such amount or
amounts as shall be necessary to compensate such Lender as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) above,
as the case may be, and (ii) the calculation of such amount or amounts referred to in the preceding
clause (i), shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The
Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall pay the Administrative Agent for the account
of such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 Business Days after its
receipt of the same.

(d) Failure on the part of any Lender to demand compensation for any increased costs
or reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital with respect to
any Interest Period shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender s rights to demand compensation
for any increased costs or reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on
capital with respect to such Interest Period or any other Interest Period. The protection of this
Section 2.16 shall be available to each Lender regardless of any possible contention of invalidity
or inapplicability of the law, regulation or condition which shall have been imposed.

(e) Each Lender agrees that, as promptly as practicable after it becomes aware of
the occurrence of an event or the existence of a condition that (i) would cause it to incur any
increased cost under this Section 2.16, Section 2.17, Section 2.22 or Section 2.24(g) or (ii) would
require the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower to pay an increased amount under this Section 2.16,
Section 2.17, Section 2.22 or Section 2.24(g), it will use reasonable efforts to notify the
Borrower of such event or condition and, to the extent not inconsistent with such Lender s internal
policies, will use its reasonable efforts to make, fund or maintain the affected Loans of such
Lender, or, if applicable to participate in Letters of Credit, through another Lending Office of
such Lender if as a result thereof the additional monies which would otherwise be required to be
paid or the reduction of amounts receivable by such Lender thereunder in respect of such Loans or
Letters of Credit would be materially reduced, or any inability to perform would cease to exist, or
the increased costs which would otherwise be required to be paid in respect of such Loans or
Letters of Credit pursuant to this Section 2.16, Section 2.17, Section 2.22 or Section

32 

2.24(g)
would be materially reduced or the taxes or other amounts otherwise payable under this Section
2.16, Section 2.17 or Section 2.22 would be materially reduced, and if, as determined by such
Lender, in its sole reasonable discretion, the making, funding or maintaining of such Loans or
Letters of Credit through such other Lending Office would not otherwise materially adversely affect
such Loans or Letters of Credit.

(f) In the event any Lender shall have delivered to the Borrower a notice that LIBOR
Loans are no longer available from such Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, that amounts are due to
such Lender pursuant to paragraph (c) above, that any of the events designated in paragraph (e)
above have occurred or that such Lender shall not be rated at least BBB by S P and Baa2 by Moody s,
the Borrower may (but subject in any such case to the payments required by Section 2.18),
 provided  that there shall exist no Default or Event of Default, upon at least five Business
Days  prior written or telecopier notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, but not more
than 30 days after receipt of notice from such Lender, identify to the Administrative Agent a
lending institution reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent which will purchase the
Revolving Commitment, the amount of outstanding Loans and any participations in Letters of Credit
from the Lender providing such notice and such Lender shall thereupon assign its Revolving
Commitment, any Loans owing to such Lender and any participations in Letters of Credit held by such
Lender to such replacement lending institution pursuant to Section 10.3. Such notice shall specify
an effective date for such assignment and at the time thereof, the Borrower
and/or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall pay all accrued interest, Facility Fees,
Utilization Fees and all other amounts (including without limitation all amounts payable under this
Section and Sections 2.22, 2.24(g), 10.4 and 10.5) owing hereunder to such Lender as at such
effective date for such assignment.

SECTION 2.17.     Change in Legality .

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, if any change in any
law or regulation or in the interpretation thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the
administration or interpretation thereof shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain
any LIBOR Loan or to give effect to its obligations as contemplated hereby, then, by written notice
to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent, such Lender may:

(i) declare that LIBOR Loans will not thereafter be made by such Lender
hereunder, whereupon such Lender shall not submit a Competitive Bid in response to a
request for LIBOR Competitive Loans and the Borrower shall otherwise be prohibited
from requesting LIBOR Loans from such Lender hereunder unless such declaration is
subsequently withdrawn; and

(ii) require that all outstanding LIBOR Loans (in Dollars) made by it be
converted to ABR Loans (or to Canadian ABR Loans, in the case of the Canadian
Revolving Lender) in which event (A) all such LIBOR Loans shall be automatically
converted to ABR Loans or Canadian ABR Loans, as the case may be, as of the
effective date of such notice as provided in Section 2.17(b) and (B) all payments
and prepayments of principal which would otherwise have been applied to repay the
converted LIBOR Loans shall instead be applied to repay the ABR Loan resulting from
the conversion of such LIBOR Loans.

(b) For purposes of this Section 2.17, a notice to the Borrower by any Lender
pursuant to Section 2.17(a) shall be effective on the date of receipt thereof by the Borrower.

33 

SECTION 2.18.     Reimbursement of Lenders .

(a) The Borrower shall reimburse each Lender on demand for any loss incurred or to
be incurred by it in the reemployment of the funds released (i) by any prepayment (for any reason,
including any refinancing) of any LIBOR or Fixed Rate Loan if such Loan is repaid other than on the
last day of the applicable Interest Period for such Loan or (ii) in the event that after the
Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower delivers a notice of borrowing under Section 2.5 in respect of
LIBOR Revolving Credit Loans or a Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter under Section 2.4(d),
pursuant to which it has accepted Competitive Bids of one or more of the Lenders, the applicable
Loan is not made on the first day of the Interest Period specified by the Borrower or the
applicable Subsidiary Borrower for any reason other than (I) a suspension or limitation under
Section 2.17 of the right of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower to select a LIBOR Loan or (II)
a breach by such Lender of its obligations hereunder. In the case of such failure to borrow, such
loss shall be the amount as reasonably determined by such Lender as the excess, if any, of (A) the
amount of interest which would have accrued to such Lender on the amount not borrowed, at a rate of
interest equal to the interest rate applicable to such Loan pursuant to Section 2.10, for the
period from the date of such failure to borrow to the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan
which
would have commenced on the date of such failure to borrow, over (B) the amount realized by
such Lender in reemploying the funds not advanced during the period referred to above. In the case
of a payment other than on the last day of the Interest Period for a Loan, such loss shall be the
amount of the excess, if any, of (A) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the amount
so paid at a rate of interest equal to the interest rate applicable to such Loan pursuant to
Section 2.10, for the period from the date of such payment to the last day of the then current
Interest Period for such Loan, over (B) an amount equal to the product of (x) the amount of the
Loan so paid  times  (y) the current daily yield on U.S. Treasury Securities (at such date of
determination) with maturities approximately equal to the remaining Interest Period for such Loan
 times  (z) the number of days remaining in the Interest Period for such Loan. Each Lender
shall deliver to the Borrower from time to time one or more certificates setting forth the amount
of such loss (and in reasonable detail the manner of computation thereof) as determined by such
Lender, which certificates shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay to
the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the amount shown as due on any certificate
within thirty (30) days after its receipt of the same.

(b) In the event the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower fails to prepay any Loan on
the date specified in any prepayment notice delivered pursuant to Section 2.14(a), the Borrower on
demand by any Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender any
amounts required to compensate such Lender for any loss incurred by such Lender as a result of such
failure to prepay, including, without limitation, any loss, cost or expenses incurred by reason of
the acquisition of deposits or other funds by such Lender to fulfill deposit obligations incurred
in anticipation of such prepayment. Each Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the
Administrative Agent from time to time one or more certificates setting forth the amount of such
loss (and in reasonable detail the manner of computation thereof) as determined by such Lender,
which certificates shall be conclusive absent manifest error.

SECTION 2.19.     Pro Rata Treatment .

Except as permitted under Sections 2.15, 2.16(c), 2.16(f), 2.17, 2.18 and 4.1(g), each
Borrowing under the Revolving Commitments and each reduction of the Total Revolving Commitment
shall be allocated pro rata among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Revolving
Commitments (or, if such Revolving Commitments shall have expired or been terminated, in accordance
with the respective principal amount of their Revolving Credit Loans) and each payment or
prepayment of principal of any Borrowing and each payment of interest on the Revolving Credit Loans
shall be allocated pro rata in accordance with the respective principal amount of the Revolving
Credit Loans then held by the Lenders. Each payment of principal of any Competitive Borrowing
shall be allocated pro rata among the Lenders participating in such Borrowing in accordance with
the respective principal amounts of their outstanding Competitive Loans comprising such Borrowing.
Each payment of interest on any

34 

Competitive Borrowing shall be allocated pro rata among the Lenders
participating in such Borrowing in accordance with the respective amounts of accrued and unpaid
interest on their outstanding Competitive Loans comprising such Borrowing. For purposes of
determining the available Revolving Commitments of the Lenders at any time, each outstanding
Competitive Borrowing shall be deemed to have utilized the Revolving Commitments of the Lenders
(including those Lenders that shall not have made Loans as part of such Competitive Borrowing) pro
rata in accordance with such respective Revolving Commitments. Each Lender agrees that in
computing such Lender s portion of any Borrowing under the Revolving Commitments to be made
hereunder, the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion, round each Lender s percentage of such
Borrowing computed in accordance with Section 2.1, to the next higher or lower whole Dollar amount.

SECTION 2.20.     Right of Setoff .

If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and any Lender shall have
requested the Administrative Agent to declare the Loans immediately due and payable pursuant to
Article 7, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest
extent permitted by Applicable Law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special,
time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held by such Lender and any other indebtedness at
any time owing by such Lender to, or for the credit or the account of, the Borrower or any
Subsidiary Borrower (limited, in the case of any Subsidiary Borrower, to the extent of the
Obligations owed by such Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement), against any of and all the
Obligations now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Loans and participations in
Letters of Credit held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made
any demand under this Agreement or such Loans and although such Obligations may be unmatured. Each
Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such setoff and application made by such
Lender, but the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and
application. The rights of each Lender under this Section 2.20 are in addition to other rights and
remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have and are subject to the
provisions of Section 8.2.

SECTION 2.21.     Manner of Payments .

All payments by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower hereunder shall be made in immediately
available funds, without setoffs, deductions or counterclaims, at the Funding Office no later than
4:30 p.m., Local Time, on the date on which such payment shall be due. Interest in respect of any
Loan hereunder shall accrue from and including the date of such Loan to, but excluding, the date on
which such Loan is paid or refinanced with a Loan of a different Interest Rate Type. All interest
and principal payments in respect of any Loan shall be made in the Currency in which such Loan is
denominated. All other payments shall be made in Dollars.

SECTION 2.22.     Withholding Taxes .

(a) Prior to the date of the initial Loans hereunder, and from time to time
thereafter if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent or required because, as a
result of a change in Applicable Law or a change in circumstances or otherwise, a previously
delivered form or statement becomes incomplete or incorrect in any material respect, each Lender
organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States (other than the Canadian
Revolving Lender) shall, to the extent it may lawfully do so, provide, if applicable, the
Administrative Agent and the Borrower with complete, accurate and duly executed forms or other
statements prescribed by a Governmental Authority certifying such Lender s exemption, if any, from,
or entitlement to a reduced rate, if any, of, withholding taxes (including backup withholding
taxes) with respect to all payments to be made to such Lender hereunder.

35 

(b) The Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower and the Administrative Agent
shall be entitled to deduct and withhold any and all present or future taxes or withholdings, and
all liabilities with respect thereto, from payments hereunder, if and to the extent that the
Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower or the Administrative Agent in good faith determines
that such deduction or withholding is required by Applicable Law, including, without limitation,
any applicable treaty. In the event the Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower or the
Administrative Agent shall so determine that deduction or withholding of taxes is required, it
shall advise the affected Lender as to the basis of
such determination prior to actually deducting and withholding such taxes. In the event the
Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall so deduct or
withhold taxes from amounts payable hereunder, it (i) shall pay to or deposit with the appropriate
taxing authority in a timely manner the full amount of taxes it has deducted or withheld; (ii)
shall provide evidence of payment of such taxes to, or the deposit thereof with, the appropriate
taxing authority and a statement setting forth the amount of taxes deducted or withheld, the
applicable rate, and any other information or documentation reasonably requested by the Lenders
from whom the taxes were deducted or withheld; and (iii) shall forward to such Lenders any receipt
for such payment or deposit of the deducted or withheld taxes as may be issued from time to time by
the appropriate taxing authority. Unless the Borrower and the Administrative Agent have received
forms or other documents satisfactory to them indicating that payments hereunder are not subject to
(A) United States withholding tax or are subject to such tax at a rate reduced by an applicable tax
treaty, in the case of extensions of credit made under the Revolving Commitments or (B) Canadian
withholding tax, in the case of extensions of credit made under the Canadian Revolving Commitment,
the Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower or the Administrative Agent may withhold taxes
from such payments at the applicable statutory rate in the case of payments to or for any Lender.

(c) Each Lender agrees (i) that as between it and the Borrower, any Subsidiary
Borrower or the Administrative Agent, it shall be the Person to deduct and withhold taxes, and to
the extent required by law it shall deduct and withhold taxes, on amounts that such Lender may
remit to any other Person(s) by reason of any undisclosed transfer or assignment of an interest in
this Agreement to such other Person(s) pursuant to paragraph (g) of Section 10.3 and (ii) to
indemnify the Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower and the Administrative Agent and any of
their officers, directors, agents, or employees against, and to hold them harmless from, any tax,
interest, additions to tax, penalties, reasonable counsel and accountants  fees, disbursements or
payments arising from the assertion by any appropriate taxing authority of any claim against them
relating to a failure to withhold taxes as required by Applicable Law with respect to amounts
described in clause (i) of this paragraph (c).

(d) Each assignee of a Lender s interest in this Agreement in conformity with
Section 10.3 shall be bound by this Section 2.22, so that such assignee will have all of the
obligations and provide all of the forms and statements and all indemnities, representations and
warranties required to be given under this Section 2.22.

(e) In the event that any (a) withholding taxes imposed by any jurisdiction outside
the United States shall become payable for any reason (other than an assignment of any portion of
the Canadian Revolving Commitment or Canadian Revolving Loans by the Canadian Lenders to any Person
who is not an Eligible Canadian Revolving Lender) or (b) United States withholding taxes shall
become payable as a result of any change in any statute, treaty, ruling, determination or
regulation occurring after the Initial Date (as defined below), in respect of any sum payable
hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document to any Lender or the Administrative Agent (i) the
sum payable by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower shall be increased as may be necessary so
that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums
payable under this Section 2.22) such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be)
receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii)
the Borrower, any Subsidiary Borrower, the Lender

36 

or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be)
shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower, the Lender
or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant
taxation authority or other authority in accordance with Applicable Law. For purposes of this
Section 2.22, the term  Initial Date  shall mean (i) in the case of the Administrative Agent, the
date hereof, (ii) in the case of each Lender as of the date hereof, the date hereof and (iii) in
the case of any other Lender, the effective date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which
it became a Lender.

SECTION 2.23.     Certain Pricing Adjustments .

The Facility Fee, the applicable LIBOR Spread, the applicable FFR Spread and the Utilization
Fee Percentage in effect from time to time shall be determined in accordance with the following
table:

In the event the S P, Moody s and Fitch ratings on the Borrower s senior non-credit enhanced
unsecured long-term debt are not equivalent to each other, the second highest rating among S P,
Moody s and Fitch will determine Facility Fee, the applicable LIBOR Spread, the applicable FFR
Spread and the Utilization Fee Percentage. In the event that (a) the Borrower s senior non-credit
enhanced unsecured long-term debt is rated by (i) Fitch and only one of S P or Moody s, or (ii)
only one of S P or Moody s (for any reason, including if S P or Moody s shall cease to be in the
business of rating corporate debt obligations), and not by Fitch, or (b) if the rating system of
any of S P, Moody s or Fitch shall change, then an amendment shall be negotiated in good faith (and
shall be effective only upon approval by the Borrower and the Supermajority Lenders) to the
references to specific ratings in the table above to reflect such changed rating system or the
unavailability of ratings from such rating agency (including an amendment to provide for the
substitution of an equivalent or successor ratings agency). In the event that the Borrower s
senior non-credit enhanced unsecured long-term debt is (i) not rated by any of S P, Moody s or
Fitch or (ii) rated only by Fitch, then the Facility Fee, the applicable LIBOR Spread, the
applicable FFR Spread and the Utilization Fee Percentage shall be deemed to be calculated as if the
lowest rating category set forth above applied. Any increase in the Facility Fee, the applicable
LIBOR Spread, the applicable FFR Spread or the Utilization Fee Percentage determined in accordance
with the foregoing table shall become effective on the date of announcement or publication by the
Borrower or the applicable rating agency of a reduction in such rating or, in the absence of such
announcement or publication, on the effective date of such decreased rating, or on the date of any
request by the Borrower to the applicable rating agency not to rate its senior non-credit enhanced
unsecured long-term debt or on the date any of such rating agencies announces it shall no longer
rate the Borrower s senior non-credit enhanced unsecured long-term debt. Any decrease in the
Facility Fee, the applicable LIBOR Spread, the applicable FFR Spread or the Utilization Fee
Percentage shall be effective on the date of announcement or

37 

publication by any of such rating
agencies of an increase in rating or in the absence of announcement or publication on the effective
date of such increase in rating.

SECTION 2.24.     Revolving Letters of Credit .

(a) (i) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereof, each Revolving Issuing
Lender agrees to issue Revolving Letters of Credit payable in Dollars from time to time after the
Closing Date and prior to the earlier of the Termination Date and the termination of the Revolving
Commitments, upon the request of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower (other than the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower),  provided  that (A) the Borrower or applicable Subsidiary Borrower
shall not request that any Revolving Letter of Credit be issued if, after giving effect thereto,
the sum of the then current Revolving L/C Exposure plus the aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent
Amount of the Loans then outstanding (other than Canadian Revolving Loans) would exceed the Total
Revolving Commitment, (B) in no event shall any Revolving Issuing Lender issue (x) any Revolving
Letter of Credit having an expiration date later than five Business Days before the Termination
Date or (y) any Revolving Letter of Credit having an expiration date more than one year after its
date of issuance,  provided ,  further , that any Revolving Letter of Credit with a
365-day duration may provide for the renewal thereof for additional one-year periods (which shall
in no event extend beyond the date referred to in clause (x) above), (C) neither the Borrower, nor
any Subsidiary Borrower shall request that a Revolving Issuing Lender issue any Revolving Letter of
Credit if, after giving effect to such issuance, the Revolving L/C Exposure would exceed
$200,000,000, and (D) a Revolving Issuing Lender shall be prohibited from issuing or renewing
Revolving Letters of Credit hereunder upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default
or an Event of Default.

(ii) Immediately upon the issuance of each Revolving Letter of Credit, each
Revolving Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby agrees to, have irrevocably
purchased from the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender, a participation in such
Revolving Letter of Credit in accordance with the percentage which its Revolving
Commitment represents of the Total Revolving Commitment.

(iii) Each Revolving Letter of Credit may, at the option of the applicable
Revolving Issuing Lender, provide that such Revolving Issuing Lender may (but shall
not be required to) pay all or any part of the maximum amount which may at any time
be available for drawing thereunder to the beneficiary thereof upon the occurrence
of an Event of Default and the acceleration of the maturity of the Revolving Credit
Loans,  provided  that, if payment is not then due to such beneficiary, such
Revolving Issuing Lender shall deposit the funds in question in an account with such
Revolving Issuing Lender to secure payment to such beneficiary and any funds so
deposited shall be paid to such beneficiary of such Revolving Letter of Credit if
conditions to such payment are satisfied or returned to the Administrative Agent for
distribution to the Revolving Lenders (or, if all Obligations shall have been paid
in full in cash, to the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower) if no
payment to such beneficiary has been made and the final date available for drawings
under such Revolving Letter of Credit has passed. Each payment or deposit of funds
by a Revolving Issuing Lender as provided in this paragraph shall be treated for all
purposes of this Agreement as a drawing duly honored by such Revolving Issuing
Lender under the related Revolving Letter of Credit.

(b) Whenever the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower desires the issuance of a
Revolving Letter of Credit, it shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and the applicable
Revolving Issuing Lender a written notice no later than 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) at least
five Business Days prior to the proposed date of issuance  provided ,  however , that
the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower and the Administrative Agent and such Revolving Issuing
Lender may agree to a shorter time period.

38 

That notice shall specify (i) the Revolving Issuing
Lender for such Revolving Letter of Credit, (ii) the proposed date of issuance (which shall be a
Business Day), (iii) the face amount of such Revolving Letter of Credit, (iv) the expiration date
of such Revolving Letter of Credit and (v) the name and address of the beneficiary. Such notice
shall be accompanied by a brief description of the underlying transaction and upon the request of
the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender, the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary
Borrower shall provide additional details regarding the underlying transaction. Concurrently
with the giving of written notice of a request for the issuance of a Revolving Letter of Credit,
the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall specify a precise description of the
documents and the verbatim text of any certificate to be presented by the beneficiary of such
Revolving Letter of Credit which, if presented by such beneficiary prior to the expiration date of
such Revolving Letter of Credit, would require the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender to make
payment under such Revolving Letter of Credit;  provided  that the applicable Revolving
Issuing Lender, in its reasonable discretion, may require customary changes in any such documents
and certificates. Upon issuance of any Revolving Letter of Credit, the applicable Revolving
Issuing Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent of the issuance of such Revolving Letter of
Credit. Promptly after receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent shall notify each
Revolving Lender of the issuance and the amount of each such Lender s respective participation
therein.

(c) The payment of drafts under any Revolving Letter of Credit shall be made in
accordance with the terms of such Revolving Letter of Credit and, in that connection, any Revolving
Issuing Lender shall be entitled to honor any drafts and accept any documents presented to it by
the beneficiary of such Revolving Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms of such Revolving
Letter of Credit and believed by such Revolving Issuing Lender in good faith, and in the absence of
gross negligence or willful misconduct, to be genuine. No Revolving Issuing Lender shall have any
duty to inquire as to the accuracy or authenticity of any draft or other drawing documents which
may be presented to it, but shall be responsible only to determine in accordance with customary
commercial practices, and in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct, that the
documents which are required to be presented before payment or acceptance of a draft under any
Revolving Letter of Credit have been delivered and that they comply on their face with the
requirements of that Revolving Letter of Credit. The obligations of the Borrower and any
Subsidiary Borrower under this Section 2.24 shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all
circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment which the Borrower
or any Subsidiary Borrower may have or have had against any Revolving Issuing Lender, any
beneficiary of a Revolving Letter of Credit or any other Person.

(d) If any Revolving Issuing Lender shall make payment on any draft presented under
a Revolving Letter of Credit, such Revolving Issuing Lender shall give notice of such payment to
the Administrative Agent and the Revolving Lenders and each Revolving Lender hereby authorizes and
requests such Revolving Issuing Lender to advance for its account pursuant to the terms hereof its
share of such payment based upon its participation in such Revolving Letter of Credit and agrees
promptly to reimburse such Revolving Issuing Lender in immediately available funds for the Dollar
amount so advanced on its behalf. If such reimbursement is not made by any Revolving Lender in
immediately available funds on the same day on which such Revolving Issuing Lender shall have made
payment on any such draft, such Lender shall pay interest thereon to such Revolving Issuing Lender
at a rate per annum equal to the Revolving Issuing Lender s cost of obtaining overnight funds in
the New York Federal Funds Market.

(e) In the case of any draft presented under a Revolving Letter of Credit which is
required to be paid at any time on or before the Termination Date and provided that the conditions
specified in Section 4.2 are then satisfied, such payment shall constitute an ABR Loan hereunder,
and interest shall accrue from the date the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender makes payment of a
draft under the Revolving Letter of Credit. If any draft is presented under a Revolving Letter of
Credit and (i) the conditions specified in Section 4.2 are not satisfied or (ii) if the Revolving
Commitments have been

39 

terminated, then the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower will,
upon demand by the Administrative Agent, pay to the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender, in
immediately available funds, the full amount of such draft.

(f) (i) The Borrower agrees to pay the following amount to each Revolving Issuing
Lender with respect to Revolving Letters of Credit issued by it hereunder:

(A) with respect to drawings made under any Revolving Letter of
Credit, interest, payable on demand, on the amount paid by such Revolving
Issuing Lender in respect of each such drawing from the date of the drawing
to, but excluding, the date such amount is reimbursed by the Borrower at a
rate which is at all times equal to 2% per annum in excess of the Alternate
Base Rate;  provided  that no such default interest shall be payable
if such reimbursement is made from the proceeds of Revolving Credit Loans
pursuant to Section 2.24(e);

(B) with respect to the issuance, amendment or transfer of each
Revolving Letter of Credit and each drawing made thereunder, documentary and
processing charges in accordance with such Revolving Issuing Lender s
standard schedule for such charges in effect at the time of such issuance,
amendment, transfer or drawing, as the case may be; and

(C) a fronting fee computed at the rate agreed to by the Borrower and
the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender, on the daily average face amount of
each outstanding Revolving Letter of Credit issued by such Revolving Issuing
Lender, such fee to be due and payable in arrears on and through the last
day of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, on the Termination Date and on
the expiration of the last outstanding Revolving Letter of Credit.

(ii) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for distribution to
each Revolving Lender in respect of all Revolving Letters of Credit outstanding,
such Lender s pro rata share of a commission on the maximum amount available from
time to time to be drawn under such outstanding Revolving Letters of Credit
calculated at a rate per annum equal to the applicable LIBOR Spread from time to
time in effect hereunder. Such commission shall be payable in arrears on and
through the last day of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower and on the later of the
Termination Date and the expiration of the last outstanding Revolving Letter of
Credit.

(iii) Promptly upon receipt by any Revolving Issuing Lender or the
Administrative Agent (as applicable) of any amount described in clause (i)(A) or
(ii) of this Section 2.24(f), or any amount described in Section 2.24(e) previously
reimbursed to the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender by the Revolving Lenders, such
Revolving Issuing Lender or the Administrative Agent (as applicable) shall
distribute to each Revolving Lender its pro rata share of such amount. Amounts
payable under clauses (i)(B) and (i)(C) of this Section 2.24(f) shall be paid
directly to the Revolving Issuing Lender and shall be for its exclusive use.

(g) If by reason of (i) any change after the date hereof in Applicable Law, or in
the interpretation or administration thereof (including, without limitation, any request, guideline
or policy not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority charged with the
administration or interpretation thereof, or (ii) compliance by any Revolving Issuing Lender or any
Revolving Lender with any direction, request or requirement (whether or not having the force of
law) issued after the date hereof by any

40 

Governmental Authority or monetary authority (including
any change whether or not proposed or published prior to the date hereof), including, without
limitation, Regulation D of the Board:

(A) any Revolving Issuing Lender or any Revolving Lender shall be
subject to any tax, levy, charge or withholding of any nature (other than
withholding tax imposed by the United States or any political subdivision or
taxing authority thereof or therein or any other tax, levy, charge or
withholding (i) that is measured with respect to the overall net income of
such Revolving Issuing Lender or such Lender (or is imposed in lieu of a tax
on net income) or of a Lending Office of such Revolving Issuing Lender or
such Lender, and that is imposed by the United States, or by the
jurisdiction in which such Revolving Issuing Lender or such Lender is
incorporated, or in which such Lending Office is located, managed or
controlled or in which such Revolving Issuing Lender or such Lender has its
principal office (or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof
or therein) or (ii) that is imposed solely by reason of such Revolving
Issuing Lender or such Lender failing to make a declaration of, or otherwise
to establish, non-residence, or to make any other claim for exemption, or
otherwise to comply with any certification, identification, information,
documentation or reporting requirements prescribed under the laws of the
relevant jurisdiction, in those cases where such Revolving Issuing Lender or
such Lender may properly make the declaration or claim or so establish
non-residence or otherwise comply) or to any variation thereof or to any
penalty with respect to the maintenance or fulfillment of its obligations
under this Section 2.24, whether directly or by such being imposed on or
suffered by any Revolving Issuing Lender or any Lender;

(B) any reserve, deposit or similar requirement is or shall be
applicable, imposed or modified in respect of any Revolving Letter of Credit
issued by any Revolving Issuing Lender or participations therein purchased
by any Revolving Lender; or

(C) there shall be imposed on any Revolving Issuing Lender or any
Revolving Lender any other condition regarding this Section 2.24, any
Revolving Letter of Credit or any participation therein;

and the result of the foregoing is directly or indirectly to increase the cost to any Revolving
Issuing Lender or any Revolving Lender of issuing, making or maintaining any Revolving Letter of
Credit or of purchasing or maintaining any participation therein, or to reduce the amount
receivable in respect thereof by any Revolving Issuing Lender or any Revolving Lender, then and in
any such case such Revolving Issuing Lender or such Lender may, at any time, notify the Borrower,
and the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower shall pay on demand such amounts as such
Revolving Issuing Lender or such Lender may specify to be necessary to compensate such Revolving
Issuing Lender or such Lender for such additional cost or reduced receipt. The determination by
any Revolving Issuing Lender or any Revolving Lender, as the case may be, of any amount due
pursuant to this Section 2.24 as set forth in a certificate setting forth the calculation thereof
in reasonable detail shall, in the absence of manifest error, be final, conclusive and binding on
all of the parties hereto.

(h) If at any time when an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
any Revolving Letters of Credit shall remain outstanding, then either the applicable Revolving
Issuing Lender(s) or the Required Lenders may, at their option, require the Borrower or any
applicable Subsidiary Borrower to deposit cash or Cash Equivalents in a Cash Collateral Account in
an amount equal to the full

41 

amount of the Revolving L/C Exposure or to furnish other security
acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender(s). Any amounts
so delivered pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be applied to reimburse the applicable
Revolving Issuing Lender(s) for the
amount of any drawings honored under Revolving Letters of Credit issued by it;
 provided ,  however , that if prior to the Termination Date, no Event of Default is
then continuing, the Administrative Agent shall return all of such collateral relating to such
deposit to the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower if requested by it.

(i) If, at any time, the Revolving L/C Exposure exceeds the Total Revolving
Commitment, then the Required Lenders may, at their option, require the Borrower or any applicable
Subsidiary Borrower to deposit cash or Cash Equivalents in a Cash Collateral Account in an amount
sufficient to eliminate such excess or to furnish other security for such excess acceptable to the
Administrative Agent and the Revolving Issuing Lender(s). Any amounts so delivered pursuant to the
preceding sentence shall be applied to reimburse the applicable Revolving Issuing Lender(s) for the
amount of any drawings honored under Revolving Letters of Credit and to repay all funded
participations therein of Revolving Lenders;  provided  that if subsequent to any such
deposit such excess is reduced to an amount less than the portion of such deposited amounts and no
Default or Event of Default is then continuing, the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower shall be
entitled to receive such excess collateral if requested by it.

(j) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, each Revolving Issuing Lender
shall furnish to the Administrative Agent copies of any Revolving Letter of Credit issued by such
Revolving Issuing Lender and such related documentation as may be reasonably requested by the
Administrative Agent.

(k) Upon the Closing Date, all Existing Revolving Letters of Credit shall be deemed
to have ceased to be outstanding under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement and shall be deemed
instead to have been issued under this Agreement on the Closing Date and to be outstanding under
this Agreement;  provided ,  however , that the foregoing shall not relieve the
Borrower of any liability it may have under or in respect of the Existing Revolving Letters of
Credit or modify or impair any rights of any other person under or in respect of the Existing
Revolving Letters of Credit.

(l) The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent, the Revolving
Issuing Lender(s) and the Lenders that Schedule 2.24(l) to this Agreement sets forth a true and
complete listing of all Existing Revolving Letters of Credit.

Notwithstanding the termination of the Commitments and the payment of the Loans, the
obligations of the Borrower under this Section 2.24 shall remain in full force and effect until the
Administrative Agent, each Revolving Issuing Lender and the Revolving Lenders shall have been
irrevocably released from their obligations with regard to any and all Revolving Letters of Credit.

SECTION 2.25.     Canadian Letters of Credit .

(a) (i) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereof, the Canadian Revolving
Lender agrees to issue Canadian Letters of Credit payable in Canadian Dollars or Dollars from time
to time after the Closing Date and prior to the earlier of the Termination Date and the termination
of the Canadian Revolving Commitment, upon the request of the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower,
 provided  that (A) the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall not request that any Canadian
Letter of Credit be issued if, after giving effect thereto, the sum of the then current Canadian
L/C Exposure plus the aggregate principal Dollar Equivalent Amount of the Canadian Revolving Loans
then outstanding would exceed the Canadian Revolving Commitment, (B) in no event shall the Canadian
Revolving Lender issue (x) any

42 

Canadian Letter of Credit having an expiration date later than five
Business Days before the Termination
Date or (y) any Canadian Letter of Credit having an expiration date more than one year after
its date of issuance,  provided ,  further , that any Canadian Letter of Credit with a
365-day duration may provide for the renewal thereof for additional one-year periods (which shall
in no event extend beyond the date referred to in clause (x) above), and (C) the Canadian Revolving
Lender shall be prohibited from issuing or renewing Canadian Letters of Credit hereunder upon the
occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or an Event of Default.

(ii) Each Canadian Letter of Credit may, at the option of the Canadian Revolving
Lender, provide that the Canadian Revolving Lender may (but shall not be required
to) pay all or any part of the maximum amount which may at any time be available for
drawing thereunder to the beneficiary thereof upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default and the acceleration of the maturity of the Canadian Revolving Loans,
 provided  that, if payment is not then due to such beneficiary, the Canadian
Revolving Lender shall deposit the funds in question in an account with the Canadian
Revolving Lender to secure payment to such beneficiary and any funds so deposited
shall be paid to such beneficiary of such Canadian Letter of Credit if conditions to
such payment are satisfied (or, if all Obligations shall have been paid in full in
cash, to the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower) if no payment to such beneficiary has
been made and the final date available for drawings under such Canadian Letter of
Credit has passed. Each payment or deposit of funds by the Canadian Revolving
Lender as provided in this paragraph shall be treated for all purposes of this
Agreement as a drawing duly honored by the Canadian Revolving Lender under the
related Canadian Letter of Credit.

(b) Whenever the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower desires the issuance of a Canadian
Letter of Credit, it shall deliver to the Canadian Revolving Lender and the Administrative Agent a
written notice no later than 1:00 p.m. (Toronto time) at least five Business Days prior to the
proposed date of issuance  provided ,  however , that the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower
and the Canadian Revolving Lender may agree to a shorter time period. That notice shall specify
(i) the proposed date of issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the face amount of such
Canadian Letter of Credit, (iii) the expiration date of such Canadian Letter of Credit and (iv) the
name and address of the beneficiary. Such notice shall be accompanied by a brief description of
the underlying transaction and upon the request of the Canadian Revolving Lender, the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower shall provide additional details regarding the underlying transaction.
Concurrently with the giving of written notice of a request for the issuance of a Canadian Letter
of Credit, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall specify a precise description of the documents
and the verbatim text of any certificate to be presented by the beneficiary of such Canadian Letter
of Credit which, if presented by such beneficiary prior to the expiration date of such Canadian
Letter of Credit, would require the Canadian Revolving Lender to make payment under such Canadian
Letter of Credit;  provided  that the Canadian Revolving Lender, in its reasonable
discretion, may require customary changes in any such documents and certificates. Upon issuance of
any Canadian Letter of Credit, the Canadian Revolving Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent
of the issuance of such Canadian Letter of Credit.

(c) The payment of drafts under any Canadian Letter of Credit shall be made in
accordance with the terms of such Canadian Letter of Credit and, in that connection, the Canadian
Revolving Lender shall be entitled to honor any drafts and accept any documents presented to it by
the beneficiary of such Canadian Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms of such Canadian
Letter of Credit and believed by the Canadian Revolving Lender in good faith, and in the absence of
gross negligence or willful misconduct, to be genuine. The Canadian Revolving Lender shall have no
duty to inquire as to the accuracy or authenticity of any draft or other drawing documents which
may be presented to it, but shall be responsible only to determine in accordance with customary
commercial

43 

practices, and in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct, that the
documents which are
required to be presented before payment or acceptance of a draft under any Canadian Letter of
Credit have been delivered and that they comply on their face with the requirements of that
Canadian Letter of Credit. The obligations of the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower under this Section
2.25 shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any
setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment which the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower may have or have
had against the Canadian Revolving Lender, any beneficiary of a Canadian Letter of Credit or any
other Person.

(d) If the Canadian Revolving Lender shall make payment on any draft presented under
a Canadian Letter of Credit, the Canadian Revolving Lender shall give notice of such payment to the
Administrative Agent.

(e) In the case of any draft presented under a Canadian Letter of Credit which is
required to be paid at any time on or before the Termination Date and provided that the conditions
specified in Section 4.2 are then satisfied, such payment shall constitute a Canadian Prime Rate
Loan or Canadian ABR Loan hereunder, and interest shall accrue from the date the Canadian Revolving
Lender makes payment of a draft under the Canadian Letter of Credit. If any draft is presented
under a Canadian Letter of Credit and (i) the conditions specified in Section 4.2 are not satisfied
or (ii) if the Revolving Commitments have been terminated, then the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower
will, upon demand by the Canadian Revolving Lender, pay to it, in immediately available funds, the
full amount of such draft.

(f) (i) The Canadian Subsidiary Borrower agrees to pay the following amount to the
Canadian Revolving Lender with respect to Canadian Letters of Credit issued by it hereunder:

(A) with respect to drawings made under any Canadian Letter of Credit,
interest, payable on demand, on the amount paid by the Canadian Revolving
Lender in respect of each such drawing from the date of the drawing to, but
excluding, the date such amount is reimbursed by the Borrower at a rate
which is at all times equal to 2% per annum in excess of the Canadian Prime
Rate or Canadian Alternate Base Rate, as applicable;  provided  that
no such default interest shall be payable if such reimbursement is made from
the proceeds of Canadian Revolving Loans pursuant to Section 2.25(e);

(B) with respect to the issuance, amendment or transfer of each
Canadian Letter of Credit and each drawing made thereunder, documentary and
processing charges in accordance with the Canadian Revolving Lender s
standard schedule for such charges in effect at the time of such issuance,
amendment, transfer or drawing, as the case may be; and

(C) a fronting fee computed at the rate agreed to by the Borrower and
the Canadian Revolving Lender, on the daily average face amount of each
outstanding Canadian Letter of Credit issued by the Canadian Revolving
Lender, such fee to be due and payable in arrears on and through the last
day of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, on the Termination Date and on
the expiration of the last outstanding Canadian Letter of Credit.

(ii) The Canadian Subsidiary Borrower agrees to pay to the Canadian Revolving
Lender in respect of all Canadian Letters of Credit outstanding, a commission on the
maximum amount available from time to time to be drawn under such outstanding
Canadian Letters of Credit calculated at a rate per annum equal to the applicable
LIBOR Spread from time to time in effect hereunder on each Canadian Letter of
Credit. Such

44 

commission shall be payable in arrears on and through the last day of
each fiscal quarter
of the Borrower and on the later of the Termination Date and the expiration of
the last outstanding Canadian Letter of Credit.

(g) If by reason of (i) any change after the date hereof in Applicable Law, or in
the interpretation or administration thereof (including, without limitation, any request, guideline
or policy not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority charged with the
administration or interpretation thereof, or (ii) compliance by the Canadian Revolving Lender with
any direction, request or requirement (whether or not having the force of law) issued after the
date hereof by any Governmental Authority or monetary authority (including any change whether or
not proposed or published prior to the date hereof):

(A) the Canadian Revolving Lender shall be subject to any tax, levy,
charge or withholding of any nature (other than withholding tax imposed by
Canada or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein
or any other tax, levy, charge or withholding (i) that is measured with
respect to the overall net income of the Canadian Revolving Lender (or is
imposed in lieu of a tax on net income) or of a Lending Office of the
Canadian Revolving Lender, and that is imposed by the jurisdiction in which
the Canadian Revolving Lender is incorporated, or in which such Lending
Office is located, managed or controlled or in which the Canadian Revolving
Lender has its principal office (or any political subdivision or taxing
authority thereof or therein) or (ii) that is imposed solely by reason of
the Canadian Revolving Lender failing to make a declaration of, or otherwise
to establish, non-residence, or to make any other claim for exemption, or
otherwise to comply with any certification, identification, information,
documentation or reporting requirements prescribed under the laws of the
relevant jurisdiction, in those cases where the Canadian Revolving Lender
may properly make the declaration or claim or so establish non-residence or
otherwise comply) or to any variation thereof or to any penalty with respect
to the maintenance or fulfillment of its obligations under this Section
2.25, whether directly or by such being imposed on or suffered by the
Canadian Revolving Lender;

(B) any reserve, deposit or similar requirement is or shall be
applicable, imposed or modified in respect of any Canadian Letter of Credit
issued by the Canadian Revolving Lender; or

(C) there shall be imposed on the Canadian Revolving Lender any other
condition regarding this Section 2.25, any Canadian Letter of Credit or any
participation therein;

and the result of the foregoing is directly or indirectly to increase the cost to any Canadian
Revolving Lender of issuing, making or maintaining any Canadian Letter of Credit, or to reduce the
amount receivable in respect thereof by the Canadian Revolving Lender, then and in any such case
the Canadian Revolving Lender may, at any time, notify the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower, and the
Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall pay on demand such amounts as the Canadian Revolving Lender may
specify to be necessary to compensate the Canadian Revolving Lender for such additional cost or
reduced receipt. The determination by the Canadian Revolving Lender of any amount due pursuant to
this Section 2.25 as set forth in a certificate setting forth the calculation thereof in reasonable
detail shall, in the absence of manifest error, be final, conclusive and binding on all of the
parties hereto.

45 

(h) If at any time when an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
any Canadian Letters of Credit shall remain outstanding, then the Canadian Revolving Lender may, at
its sole
option, require the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower to deposit cash or Cash Equivalents in a
Canadian Cash Collateral Account in an amount equal to the full amount of the Canadian L/C Exposure
or to furnish other security acceptable to the Canadian Revolving Lender. Any amounts so delivered
pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be applied to reimburse the Canadian Revolving Lender for
the amount of any drawings honored under Canadian Letters of Credit issued by it;  provided ,
 however , that if prior to the Termination Date, no Event of Default is then continuing, the
Canadian Revolving Lender shall return all of such collateral relating to such deposit to the
Canadian Subsidiary Borrower if requested by it.

(i) If, at any time, the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the Canadian L/C Exposure
exceeds the Canadian Revolving Commitment, then the Canadian Revolving Lender may, at its option,
require the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower to deposit cash or Cash Equivalents in a Canadian Cash
Collateral Account in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess or to furnish other security
for such excess acceptable to the Canadian Revolving Lender. Any amounts so delivered pursuant to
the preceding sentence shall be applied to reimburse the Canadian Revolving Lender for the amount
of any drawings honored under Canadian Letters of Credit;  provided  that if subsequent to
any such deposit such excess is reduced to an amount less than the portion of such deposited
amounts and no Default or Event of Default is then continuing, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower
shall be entitled to receive such excess collateral if requested by it.

(j) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Revolving Lender
shall furnish to the Administrative Agent copies of any Canadian Letter of Credit issued by the
Canadian Revolving Lender and such related documentation as may be reasonably requested by the
Administrative Agent.

(k) Upon the Closing Date, all Existing Canadian Letters of Credit shall be deemed
to have ceased to be outstanding under the Existing Canadian Credit Agreement and shall be deemed
instead to have been issued under this Agreement on the Closing Date and to be outstanding under
this Agreement;  provided ,  however , that the foregoing shall not relieve the
Canadian Subsidiary Borrower of any liability it may have under or in respect of the Existing
Canadian Letters of Credit or modify or impair any rights of any other person under or in respect
of the Existing Canadian Letters of Credit.

(l) The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the
Canadian Revolving Lender that Schedule 2.25(l) to this Agreement sets forth a true and complete
listing of all Existing Canadian Letters of Credit.

Notwithstanding the termination of the Commitments and the payment of the Loans, the
obligations of the Borrower under this Section 2.25 shall remain in full force and effect until the
Canadian Revolving Lender shall have been irrevocably released from its obligations with regard to
any and all Canadian Letters of Credit.

SECTION 2.26.     Canadian Bankers  Acceptances  . 

(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Canadian Subsidiary
Borrower may present drafts for acceptance and purchase as Canadian B/As by the Canadian Revolving
Lender.

(b) No Contract Period with respect to a Canadian B/A shall extend beyond the
Termination Date.

46 

(c) To facilitate extensions of credit under the Canadian Revolving Commitment by
way of Canadian B/As, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower hereby appoints the Canadian Revolving
Lender as its attorney to sign and endorse on its behalf, in writing or by facsimile or mechanical
signature as and when deemed necessary by the Canadian Revolving Lender, blank forms of Canadian
B/As. In this respect, it is the Canadian Revolving Lender s responsibility to maintain an
adequate supply of blank forms of Canadian B/As for acceptance under this Agreement. The Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower recognizes and agrees that all Canadian B/As signed and/or endorsed on their
behalf by the Canadian Revolving Lender shall bind the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower as fully and
effectually as if signed in the handwriting of and duly issued by the proper signing officers of
the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower. The Canadian Revolving Lender is hereby authorized to issue such
Canadian B/As endorsed in blank in such face amounts as may be determined by the Canadian Revolving
Lender;  provided  that the aggregate amount thereof is equal to the aggregate amount of
Canadian B/As required to be accepted and purchased by the Canadian Revolving Lender. The Canadian
Revolving Lender shall not be liable for any damage, loss or other claim arising by reason of any
loss or improper use of any such instrument except the gross negligence or willful misconduct of
the Canadian Revolving Lender or its officers, employees, agents or representatives. The Canadian
Revolving Lender shall maintain a record with respect to Canadian B/As (a) voided by it for any
reason, (b) accepted and purchased by it hereunder and (c) cancelled at their respective
maturities. The Canadian Revolving Lender further agrees to retain such records in the manner and
for the statutory periods provided in the various provincial or federal statutes and regulations
which apply to the Canadian Revolving Lender. The Canadian Revolving Lender agrees to provide such
records to the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower at the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower s expense upon
request. On request by or on behalf of the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower, the Canadian Revolving
Lender shall cancel all forms of Canadian B/A which have been pre-signed or pre-endorsed on behalf
of the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower and which are held by the Canadian Revolving Lender and are not
required to be issued in accordance with the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower s irrevocable notice.

(d) Drafts of the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower to be accepted as Canadian B/As
hereunder shall be signed as set forth in this Section 2.26. Notwithstanding that any person whose
signature appears on any Canadian B/A may no longer be an authorized signatory for the Canadian
Revolving Lender or the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower at the date of issuance of a Canadian B/A,
such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes as if such authority had
remained in force at the time of such issuance and any such Canadian B/A so signed shall be binding
on the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower.

(e) Any refinancing by way of a Canadian B/As shall be made in accordance with
Section 2.6 and Section 2.7.

(f) Upon acceptance of a Canadian B/A by the Canadian Revolving Lender, the Canadian
Revolving Lender shall purchase, or arrange the purchase of, such Canadian B/A from the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower at the Discount Rate applicable to such Canadian B/A and provide the Discount
Proceeds to the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower. The Acceptance Fee payable by the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower to the Canadian Revolving Lender under Section 2.10 in respect of each Canadian
B/A accepted by the Canadian Revolving Lender shall be set off against the Discount Proceeds
payable by the Canadian Revolving Lender under this Section 2.26.

(g) The Canadian Revolving Lender may at any time and from time to time hold, sell,
rediscount or otherwise dispose of any or all Canadian B/As accepted and purchased by it.

(h) The Canadian Subsidiary Borrower waives presentment for payment and any other
defense to payment of any amounts due to the Canadian Revolving Lender in respect of a Canadian B/A
accepted and purchased by it pursuant to this Agreement which might exist solely by reason of such

47 

Canadian B/A being held, at the maturity thereof, by the Canadian Revolving Lender in its own
right and the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower agrees not to claim any days of grace if the Canadian
Revolving Lender as holder sues the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower on the Canadian B/A for payment of
the amount payable by the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower thereunder. On the specified maturity date
of a Canadian B/A, or such earlier date as may be required or permitted pursuant to the provisions
of this Agreement, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower shall pay the Canadian Revolving Lender the
full face amount of such Canadian B/A and after such payment, the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower
shall have no further liability in respect of such Canadian B/A and the Canadian Revolving Lender
shall be entitled to all benefits of, and be responsible for all payments due to third parties
under, such Canadian B/A.

(i) If at any time when an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
any Canadian B/As shall remain outstanding, then the Canadian Revolving Lender may, at its sole
option, require the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower to deposit cash or Cash Equivalents in a Canadian
Cash Collateral Account in an amount equal to the aggregate amount of the full face amount of all
outstanding Canadian B/As;  provided ,  however , that if prior to the Termination
Date, no Event of Default is then continuing, the Canadian Revolving Lender shall return all of
such collateral relating to such deposit to the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower if requested by it.

3. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BORROWER

In order to induce the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Loans and
participate in the Letters of Credit provided for herein, the Borrower makes the following
representations and warranties to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, all of which shall
survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of the Loans and issuance of
the Letters of Credit:

SECTION 3.1.     Corporate Existence and Power .

The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have been duly organized and are validly existing in good
standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation and are in good standing
or have applied for authority to operate as a foreign corporation in all jurisdictions where the
nature of their properties or business so requires it and where a failure to be in good standing as
a foreign corporation would have a Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower has the corporate power
to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement and the other Fundamental
Documents and other documents contemplated hereby and to borrow and obtain other extensions of
credit hereunder.

SECTION 3.2.     Corporate Authority and No Violation .

The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents
and the borrowings and making of other extensions of credit hereunder (a) have been duly authorized
by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Borrower, (b) will not violate any provision
of any Applicable Law applicable to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their
respective properties or assets, (c) will not violate any provision of the Certificate of
Incorporation or By-Laws of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any material Contractual
Obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (d) will not be in conflict with, result in
a breach of, or constitute (with due notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, any material
indenture, agreement, bond, note or instrument and (e) will not result in the creation or
imposition of any Lien upon any property or assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries other
than pursuant to this Agreement or any other Fundamental Document.

48 

SECTION 3.3.     Governmental and Other Approval and Consents .

No action, consent or approval of, or registration or filing with, or any other action by, any
governmental agency, bureau, commission or court is required in connection with the execution,
delivery and performance (including the borrowings and making of other extensions of credit
hereunder) by the Borrower of this Agreement or the other Fundamental Documents.

SECTION 3.4.     Financial Statements of Borrower .

The (a) audited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2004, and (b) unaudited consolidated balance
sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of September, 30 2005, in each case,
together with the related unaudited statements of income, shareholders  equity and cash flows for
the nine-month period then ended fairly present the financial position of the Borrower and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the dates indicated and the results of operations and cash flows
for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP subject to normal year-end adjustments in the
case of such quarterly financial statements.

SECTION 3.5.     No Material Adverse Change .

Except for the Disclosed Matters, since December 31, 2004 there has been no material adverse
change in the business, assets, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower
and its Consolidated Subsidiaries taken as a whole;  provided  that the foregoing
representation is made solely as of the Closing Date.

SECTION 3.6.     Copyrights, Patents and Other Rights .

Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks,
tradenames, service marks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its
business, and the use thereof by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the
rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the
aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

SECTION 3.7.     Title to Properties .

Each of the Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries will have at the Closing Date good title or
valid leasehold interests to each of the properties and assets reflected on the balance sheets
referred to in Section 3.4 (other than properties or assets owned by Bishop s Gate Residential
Mortgage Trust), except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to
conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended
purposes, and all such properties and assets will be free and clear of Liens, except Permitted
Encumbrances.

SECTION 3.8.     Litigation .

There are no lawsuits or other proceedings pending (including, but not limited to, matters
relating to environmental liability), or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, against or
affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties, by or
before any Governmental Authority or arbitrator, which could reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in default with
respect to any order, writ, injunction, decree, rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority,
which default would have a Material Adverse Effect.

49 

SECTION 3.9.     Federal Reserve Regulations .

Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its
important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying
any Margin Stock. No part of the proceeds of the Loans will be used, whether immediately,
incidentally or ultimately, for any purpose violative of or inconsistent with any of the provisions
of Regulation T, U or X of the Board.

SECTION 3.10.     Investment Company Act, Public Utility Company Act .

The Borrower is not, and will not during the term of this Agreement be, (x) an  investment
company , within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended or (y) subject to
regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 or the Federal Power Act.

SECTION 3.11.     Enforceability .

This Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents when executed will constitute legal, valid
and enforceable obligations (as applicable) of the Borrower and any Subsidiary Borrower (subject,
as to enforcement, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other
similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors  rights generally and to general principles of
equity).

SECTION 3.12.     Taxes .

The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed all federal,
provincial, state and local tax returns which are required to be filed, and have paid or have
caused to be paid all taxes as shown on said returns or on any assessment received by them in
writing, to the extent that such taxes have become due, except (a) as permitted by Section 5.4 or
(b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a
Material Adverse Effect.

SECTION 3.13.     Compliance with ERISA .

Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is in compliance in all material respects with the
provisions of ERISA and the Code applicable to Plans, and the regulations and published
interpretations thereunder, if any, which are applicable to it and the applicable laws, rules and
regulations of any jurisdiction applicable to Plans. Neither the Borrower nor any of its
Subsidiaries has, with respect to any Plan, engaged in a prohibited transaction which would subject
it to a material tax or penalty on prohibited transactions imposed by ERISA or Section 4975 of the
Code. No liability to the PBGC that is material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a
whole has been, or to the Borrower s best knowledge is reasonably expected to be, incurred with
respect to the Plans and there has been no Reportable Event and no other event or condition that
presents a material risk of termination of a Plan by the PBGC. Neither the Borrower nor any of its
Subsidiaries has engaged in a transaction which would result in the incurrence of a material
liability under Section 4069 of ERISA. As of the Closing Date, neither the Borrower nor any of its
Subsidiaries contributes to a Multiemployer Plan, and has not incurred any liability that would be
material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole on account of a partial or complete
withdrawal (as defined in Sections 4203 and 4205 of ERISA, respectively) with respect to any
Multiemployer Plan.

SECTION 3.14.     Disclosure .

As of the Closing Date, neither this Agreement nor the Confidential Information Memorandum, at
the time it was furnished, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a
material fact, under the circumstances under which it was made, necessary in order to make the
statements contained herein or therein not misleading. The Confidential Information Memorandum

50 

contains certain projections relating to the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries. Such
projections are based on good faith estimates and assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time
made, provided, however, that the Borrower makes no representation or warranty that such
assumptions will prove in the future to be accurate or that the Borrower and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries will achieve the financial results reflected in such projections. At the Closing
Date, there is no fact known to the Borrower which, individually or in the aggregate, could
reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

SECTION 3.15.     Environmental Liabilities .

Except with respect to any matters, that, individually or in the aggregate, could not
reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any of its
Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply
with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become
subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any
Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.

4. CONDITIONS OF LENDING

SECTION 4.1.     Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness .

The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the following conditions precedent:

(a)  Loan Documents . The Administrative Agent shall have received this
Agreement and each of the other Fundamental Documents, each executed and delivered by a duly
authorized officer of the Borrower and the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower.

(b)  Corporate Documents for the Borrower and the Canadian Subsidiary
Borrower . The Administrative Agent shall have received, with copies for each of the Lenders, a
certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower and the Canadian Subsidiary
Borrower dated the date hereof and certifying (A) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy
of its certificate of incorporation and by-laws as in effect on the date of such certification; (B)
that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions adopted by its Board of Directors
authorizing the borrowings and other extensions of credit hereunder and the execution, delivery and
performance in accordance with their respective terms of this Agreement and any other documents
required or contemplated hereunder; and (C) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each of
its officers executing this Agreement or any other document delivered by it in connection herewith
(such certificate to contain a certification by another of its officers as to the incumbency and
signature of the officer signing the certificate referred to in this paragraph (b)).

(c)  Financial Statements . The Lenders shall have received the (i) audited
consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of and for
the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2004 (as modified and updated by the
Disclosed Matters) and (ii) unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2005.

(d)  Opinions of Counsel . The Administrative Agent shall have received the
favorable written opinions, dated as of the date hereof and addressed to the Administrative Agent
and the Lenders, of (i) internal counsel of PHH Corporation, (ii) Thacher, Proffitt   Wood LLP and
Blake, Cassells   Graydon LLP, substantially in the form of Exhibits A-1, A-2 and A-3 hereto
respectively.

51 

(e)  Termination of Existing Revolving Credit Agreement . The commitments of
the lenders under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement shall have been terminated, no extensions
of credit or interest thereon shall be outstanding or other amounts be due and owing thereunder,
and there shall not be outstanding any Existing Revolving Letters of Credit except for those shown
on Schedule 2.24(l) hereto.

(f)  Termination of Existing Canadian Credit Agreement . The commitments of
the lenders under the Existing Canadian Credit Agreement shall have been terminated, no extensions
of credit or interest thereon shall be outstanding or other amounts be due and owing thereunder,
and there shall not be outstanding any Existing Canadian Letters of Credit except for those shown
on Schedule 2.25(l) hereto.

(g)  No Material Adverse Change . The Administrative Agent shall be satisfied
that, except for the Disclosed Matters, no material adverse change shall have occurred with respect
to the business, assets, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, since December 31, 2004.

(h)  Payment of Fees . The Administrative Agent shall be satisfied that all
amounts payable to the Joint Lead Arrangers, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders
pursuant hereto or with regard to the transactions contemplated hereby have been or are
simultaneously being paid.

(i)  Closing Date Payments . The Borrower and the Lenders shall have made
such payments among themselves on the Closing Date as directed by the Administrative Agent with the
result
that, after giving effect thereto, the outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, if any, shall be
held by the Lenders pro rata in accordance with their respective Commitments. The Borrower shall
have paid to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective lenders under the Existing
Revolving Credit Agreement, all unpaid fees and other amounts accrued under the Existing Revolving
Credit Agreement to the Closing Date.

(j)  Litigation . No litigation shall be pending or, to the Borrower s
knowledge, threatened which would be likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or which could
reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to fulfill its
obligations hereunder or to otherwise materially impair the interests of the Lenders.

(k)  Officer s Certificate . The Administrative Agent shall have received a
certificate of the chief executive officer or chief financial officer or chief accounting officer
of the Borrower certifying, as of the Closing Date, compliance with the conditions set forth in
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 4.2.

SECTION 4.2.     Conditions Precedent to Each Loan and Letter of Credit . The
obligation of the Lenders to make each Loan and of any Revolving Issuing Lender or the Canadian
Revolving Lender to issue or amend a Letter of Credit, including the initial Loan hereunder, is
subject to the following conditions precedent:

(a)  Notice . The Administrative Agent shall have received a notice with
respect to such Borrowing or Letter of Credit as required by Article 2 hereof.

(b)  Representations and Warranties . The representations and warranties set
forth in Article 3 (other than those set forth in Section 3.5, which shall be deemed made only on
the Closing Date) and in the other Fundamental Documents shall be true and correct in all material
respects on and as of the date of each Borrowing or the issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder
(except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date)
with the same effect as if made on and

52 

as of such date;  provided  that this condition shall
not apply to a Revolving Credit Borrowing which is solely refinancing outstanding Revolving Credit
Loans and which, after giving effect thereto, has not increased the aggregate amount of outstanding
Revolving Credit Loans.

(c)  No Event of Default . On the date of each Borrowing or the issuance or
amendment of a Letter of Credit hereunder, the Borrower shall be in material compliance with all of
the terms and provisions set forth herein to be observed or performed and no Event of Default or
Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such date or after giving effect to the Borrowing
to be made on such date;  provided  that this condition shall not apply to a Revolving Credit
Borrowing which is solely refinancing outstanding Revolving Credit Loans and which, after giving
effect thereto, has not increased the aggregate amount of outstanding Revolving Credit Loans.

(d)  Each Loan and Letter of Credit for a Subsidiary Borrower . The
representations and warranties contained in Section 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 as to any Subsidiary Borrower
to which a Loan is to be made or for whose account a Letter of Credit is to be issued shall be true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing or issuance of a
Letter of Credit hereunder;  provided ,  however , that this condition shall not apply
to a Revolving Credit Borrowing which is solely refinancing outstanding Revolving Credit Loans and
which, after giving effect thereto, has not increased the aggregate amount of outstanding Revolving
Credit Loans.

Each Borrowing or issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a
representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date of such Borrowing or issuance or amendment
of a Letter of Credit as to the matters specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section.

5. AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS

For so long as the Commitments shall be in effect or any amount shall remain outstanding or
unpaid under this Agreement or there shall be any outstanding L/C Exposure, the Borrower agrees
that, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, it will, and will cause each
of its Subsidiaries to:

SECTION 5.1.     Financial Statements, Reports, etc .

Deliver to each Lender:

(a) As soon as is practicable, but in any event within 100 days after the end of
each fiscal year of the Borrower, (i) either (A) consolidated statements of income (or operations)
and consolidated statements of cash flows and changes in stockholders  equity of the Borrower and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such year and the related consolidated balance sheets as at the
end of such year, or (B) the Form 10-K filed by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and (ii) if not included in such Form 10-K, an opinion of independent certified public
accountants of recognized national standing, which opinion shall state that said consolidated
financial statements fairly present the consolidated financial position and results of operations
of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of, and for, such fiscal year and
that such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied consistently
throughout the periods reflected therein and with prior periods;

(b) As soon as is practicable, but in any event within 60 days after the end of each
of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, either (i) the Form 10-Q filed by the
Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission or (ii) the unaudited consolidated balance
sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and
the related unaudited statements of income and cash flows for such quarter and for the period from
the beginning of the then current fiscal

53

year to the end of such fiscal quarter and the
corresponding figures as of the end of the preceding fiscal year, and for the corresponding period
in the preceding fiscal year, in each case, together with a certificate (substantially in the form
of Exhibit C) signed by the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer or a vice
president responsible for financial administration of the Borrower to the effect that such
financial statements, while not examined by independent public accountants, reflect, in his opinion
and in the opinion of the Borrower, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial
position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as the case may be, as at the end of
the fiscal quarter and the results of their operations for the quarter then ended in conformity
with GAAP consistently applied, subject only to year-end and audit adjustments and to the absence
of footnote disclosure;

(c) Together with the delivery of the statements referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this Section 5.1, a certificate of the chief financial officer, chief accounting officer or
a vice president responsible for financial administration of the Borrower, substantially in the
form of Exhibit C hereto (i) stating whether or not the signer has knowledge of any Default or
Event of Default and, if so, specifying each such Default or Event of Default of which the signer
has knowledge and the nature thereof and (ii) demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance with
the provisions of Sections 6.6 and 6.7;

(d) Promptly upon any executive officer of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
obtaining knowledge of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, a certificate of the
president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower specifying the
nature and period of existence of such Default or Event of Default and what action the Borrower has
taken, is taking and proposes to take with respect thereto; and

(e) Promptly upon any executive officer of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
obtaining knowledge of (i) the institution of any action, suit, proceeding, investigation or
arbitration by any Governmental Authority or other Person against or affecting the Borrower or any
of its Subsidiaries or any of their assets, or (ii) any material development in any such action,
suit, proceeding, investigation or arbitration (whether or not previously disclosed to the
Lenders), which, in each case might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect,
prompt notice thereof and such other information as may be reasonably available to it (without
waiver of any applicable evidentiary privilege) to enable the Lenders to evaluate such matters.

SECTION 5.2.  Corporate Existence; Compliance with Statutes .

Do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and
effect its corporate existence, rights, licenses, permits and franchises and comply, except where
failure to comply, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to
result in a Material Adverse Effect, with all provisions of Applicable Law, and all applicable
restrictions imposed by any Governmental Authority, and all state and provincial laws and
regulations of similar import;  provided  that mergers, dissolutions and liquidations
permitted under Section 6.3 shall be permitted.

SECTION 5.3.  Insurance .

Maintain with good and reputable insurers insurance in such amounts and against such risks as
are customarily insured against by companies in similar businesses;  provided 
 however , that (a) workmen s compensation insurance or similar coverage may be effected with
respect to its operations in any particular state or other jurisdiction through an insurance fund
operated by such state or jurisdiction and (b) such insurance may contain self-insurance retention
and deductible levels consistent as such insurance is usually carried by companies of established
reputation and comparable size.

SECTION 5.4.  Taxes and Charges .

54 

           Duly pay and discharge, or cause to be paid and discharged, before the same shall become
delinquent, all federal, state or local taxes, assessments, levies and other governmental charges,
imposed upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective properties, sales and
activities, or any part thereof, or upon the income or profits therefrom, as well as all claims for
labor, materials, or supplies which if unpaid could reasonably be expected to result in a Material
Adverse Effect;  provided  that any such tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim need not be
paid if the validity or amount thereof shall currently be contested in good faith by appropriate
proceedings and if the Borrower shall have set aside on its books reserves (the presentation of
which is segregated to the extent required by GAAP) adequate with respect thereto if reserves shall
be deemed necessary by the Borrower in accordance with GAAP; and  provided ,  further ,
that the Borrower will pay all such taxes, assessments, levies or other
governmental charges forthwith upon the commencement of proceedings to foreclose any Lien
which may have attached as security therefor (unless the same is fully bonded or otherwise
effectively stayed).

SECTION 5.5.  ERISA Compliance and Reports .

Furnish to the Administrative Agent (a) as soon as possible, and in any event within 30 days
after any executive officer (as defined in Regulation C under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended) of the Borrower knows that (i) any Reportable Event with respect to any Plan has occurred,
a statement of the chief financial officer of the Borrower, setting forth details as to such
Reportable Event and the action which it proposes to take with respect thereto, together with a
copy of the notice, if any, required to be filed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of such
Reportable Event with the PBGC or (ii) an accumulated funding deficiency has been incurred or an
application has been made to the Secretary of the Treasury for a waiver or modification of the
minimum funding standard or an extension of any amortization period under Section 412 of the Code
with respect to a Plan, a Plan has been or is proposed to be terminated in a  distress termination 
(as defined in Section 4041(c) of ERISA), proceedings have been instituted to terminate a Plan or a
Multiemployer Plan, a proceeding has been instituted to collect a delinquent contribution to a Plan
or a Multiemployer Plan, or either the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries will incur any liability
(including any contingent or secondary liability) to or on account of the termination of or
withdrawal from a Plan under Section 4062, 4063 or 4064 of ERISA or the withdrawal or partial
withdrawal from a Multiemployer Plan under Section 4201 or 4204 of ERISA, a statement of the chief
financial officer of the Borrower, setting forth details as to such event and the action it
proposes to take with respect thereto, (b) promptly upon the reasonable request of the
Administrative Agent, copies of each annual and other report with respect to each Plan and (c)
promptly after receipt thereof, a copy of any notice the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may
receive from the PBGC relating to the PBGC s intention to terminate any Plan or to appoint a
trustee to administer any Plan;  provided  that the Borrower shall not be required to notify
the Administrative Agent of the occurrence of any of the events set forth in the preceding clauses
(a) and (c) unless such event, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to
result in a material liability to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. The
Administrative Agent shall provide any information delivered to it under this Section 5.5 to any
Lender upon such Lender s request.

SECTION 5.6.   Maintenance of and Access to Books and Records;
Examinations .

Maintain or cause to be maintained at all times true and complete books and records of its
financial operations (in accordance with GAAP) and provide the Administrative Agent and its
representatives reasonable access to all such books and records and to any of their properties or
assets during regular business hours ( provided  that reasonable access to such books and
records and to any of the Borrower s properties or assets shall be made available to the Lenders if
an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing), in order that the Administrative Agent may
make such audits and examinations and make abstracts from such books, accounts and records and may
discuss the affairs, finances and accounts with, and be advised as to the same by, officers and
independent accountants, all as

55 

the Administrative Agent may deem appropriate for the purpose of
verifying the various reports delivered pursuant to this Agreement or for otherwise ascertaining
compliance with this Agreement.

SECTION 5.7.  Maintenance of Properties .

Keep its properties which are material to its business in good repair, working order and
condition consistent with companies of established reputation and comparable size.

6. NEGATIVE COVENANTS

For so long as the Commitments shall be in effect or any amount shall remain outstanding or
unpaid under this Agreement or there shall be any outstanding L/C Exposure, unless the Required
Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, the Borrower agrees that it will not, nor will it
permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:

SECTION 6.1.  Limitation on Material Subsidiary Indebtedness .

Incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness of any Material Subsidiary which principally
transacts business in the United States, except:

(a) Indebtedness in existence on the date hereof, or required to be incurred
pursuant to a contractual obligation in existence on the date hereof, which in either case (to the
extent not otherwise permitted by paragraphs (b)-(i) of this Section 6.1), is listed on Schedule
6.1 hereto, but not any extensions or renewals thereof, unless effected on substantially the same
terms or on terms not more adverse to the Lenders;

(b) purchase money Indebtedness (including Capital Leases) to the extent permitted
under Section 6.4(b);

(c) Indebtedness owing by any Material Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other
Subsidiary;

(d) Indebtedness of any Material Subsidiary of the Borrower issued and outstanding
prior to the date on which such Subsidiary became a Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than
Indebtedness issued in connection with, or in anticipation of, such Subsidiary becoming a
Subsidiary of the Borrower);  provided  that immediately prior and on a Pro Forma Basis after
giving effect to, such Person becoming a Subsidiary of the Borrower, no Default or Event of Default
shall occur or then be continuing and the aggregate principal amount of such Indebtedness, when
added to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by paragraphs (e) and
(f) below, shall not exceed $150,000,000;

(e) any renewal, extension or modification of Indebtedness under paragraph (d) above
so long (i) as such renewal, extension or modification is effected on substantially the same terms
or on terms which, in the aggregate, are not more adverse to the Lenders and (ii) the principal
amount of such Indebtedness is not increased;

(f) other Indebtedness of any Material Subsidiary in an aggregate principal amount
which, when added to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by
paragraphs (d) and (e) above, does not exceed $150,000,000;

(g) Indebtedness of Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiaries incurred to finance
investment in lease agreements and vehicles by such Subsidiaries, so long as the lender (and any
other party) in

56 

respect of such Indebtedness has recourse, if any, solely to the assets of such
Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiary;

(h) Indebtedness of any Asset Securitization Subsidiary incurred solely to finance
asset securitization transactions as long as (i) such Indebtedness is unsecured or is secured
solely as permitted by Section 6.4(n), and (ii) the lender (and any other party) in respect of such
Indebtedness has recourse (other than customary limited recourse based on misrepresentations or
failure of such assets to meet customary eligibility criteria), if any, solely to the assets
securitized in the applicable asset securitization transaction and, if such Asset Securitization
Subsidiary is of the type described in clause (i) of the definition of  Asset Securitization
Subsidiary , the capital stock of such Asset Securitization Subsidiary;

(i) Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness of Asset Securitization Subsidiaries
incurred to finance asset securitization transactions permitted by this Agreement) consisting of
the obligation to repurchase mortgages and related assets or secured by mortgages and related
assets in connection with other mortgage warehouse financing arrangements, if the aggregate
principal amount of all such Indebtedness does not exceed $1,150,000,000;

(j) Indebtedness incurred under the PHH Home Loans Credit Agreement, in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed $300,000,000; and

(k) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary Borrower incurred under this Agreement.

SECTION 6.2.  Limitation on Transactions with Affiliates .

Enter into any transaction, including, without limitation, any purchase, sale, lease or
exchange of property or the rendering of any service, with any Affiliate (other than the Borrower
or a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower) unless such transaction is (a) otherwise permitted
under this Agreement and (b) upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or
such Subsidiary, as the case may be, than it would obtain in a comparable arm s length transaction
with a Person which is not an Affiliate.

SECTION 6.3.  Consolidation, Merger, Sale of Assets .

(a) Neither the Borrower nor any of its Material Subsidiaries (in one transaction or series of
transactions) will wind up, liquidate or dissolve its affairs, or enter into any transaction of
merger or consolidation, except any merger, consolidation, dissolution or liquidation (i) in which
the Borrower is the surviving entity or if the Borrower is not a party to such transaction then a
Subsidiary is the surviving entity, (ii) in which the surviving entity becomes a Material
Subsidiary of the Borrower immediately upon the effectiveness of such merger, consolidation,
dissolution or liquidation or (iii) in connection with a transaction permitted by Section 6.3(b);
 provided  that immediately prior to and on a Pro Forma Basis after giving effect to such
transaction no Default or Event of Default has occurred or is continuing.

(b) Sell or otherwise dispose of (i) all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (ii) all or substantially all of the assets of PHH
Mortgage Corporation and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;  provided  that it is understood
for purposes of clarity that this Section 6.3(b) shall not prohibit or limit in any respect
transactions in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
(including but not limited to asset securitization transactions or similar transactions entered
into in the ordinary course of business).

SECTION 6.4.  Limitations on Liens .

57 

           Suffer any Lien on the property of the Borrower or any of the Material Subsidiaries which
principally transact business in the United States, except:

(a) deposits under worker s compensation, unemployment insurance and social security
laws or to secure statutory obligations or surety or appeal bonds or performance or other similar
bonds in the ordinary course of business, or statutory Liens of landlords, carriers, warehousemen,
mechanics and materialmen and other similar Liens, in respect of liabilities which are not yet due
or which are being contested in good faith, Liens for taxes not yet due and payable, and Liens for
taxes due and payable, the validity or amount of which is currently being contested in good faith
by appropriate proceedings and as to which foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings shall not
have been commenced (unless fully bonded or otherwise effectively stayed);

(b) purchase money Liens granted to the vendor or Person financing the acquisition
of property, plant or equipment if (i) limited to the specific assets acquired and, in the case of
tangible assets, other property which is an improvement to or is acquired for specific use in
connection with such acquired property or which is real property being improved by such acquired
property; (ii) the debt secured by such Lien is the unpaid balance of the acquisition cost of the
specific assets on which the Lien is granted; and (iii) such transaction does not otherwise violate
this Agreement;

(c) Liens upon real and/or personal property, which property was acquired after the
Closing Date (by purchase, construction or otherwise) by the Borrower or any of its Material
Subsidiaries, each of which Liens existed on such property before the time of its acquisition and
was not created in anticipation thereof;  provided  that no such Lien shall extend to or
cover any property of the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary other than the respective property
so acquired and improvements thereon;

(d) Liens arising out of attachments, judgments or awards as to which an appeal or
other appropriate proceedings for contest or review are promptly commenced (and as to which
foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings (i) shall not have been commenced (unless fully
bonded or otherwise effectively stayed) or (ii) in any event shall be promptly fully bonded or
otherwise effectively stayed);

(e) Liens created under any Fundamental Document as contemplated by this Agreement;

(f) Liens securing Indebtedness of any Material Subsidiary to the Borrower;

(g) Liens covering only the property or assets of any Special Purpose Vehicle
Subsidiary and securing only such Indebtedness of such Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiary as is
permitted under Section 6.1(g) hereof;

(h) other Liens incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its
property and other assets, which do not secure any Indebtedness and did not otherwise arise in
connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit and which do not, in
the aggregate, materially detract from the value of its property or other assets or materially
impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;

(i) to the extent not otherwise permitted by this Section 6.4, Liens existing on the
Closing Date listed on Schedule 6.4 hereto and any extensions or renewals thereof;

(j) Liens securing indebtedness in respect of one or more asset securitization
transactions, which indebtedness is not reported on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower
and its
Subsidiaries, covering only the assets securitized in the asset securitization transaction
financed by such

58 

indebtedness and the capital stock of any special purpose vehicle the sole purpose
of which is to effectuate such asset securitization transaction;

(k) other Liens securing obligations having an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $150,000,000;

(l) Liens securing Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.1(j);

(m) Liens on cash of Atrium Insurance Corporation in connection with its reinsurance
business;

(n) Liens securing Indebtedness and related obligations of an Asset Securitization
Subsidiary in respect of one or more asset securitization transactions, which Indebtedness is
reported on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, covering only the
assets securitized in the asset securitization transaction financed by such Indebtedness and, if an
Asset Securitization Subsidiary is of the type described in clause (i) of the definition of  Asset
Securitization Subsidiary , the capital stock of such Asset Securitization Subsidiary; and

(o) Liens on mortgages and related assets securing obligations to the extent such
obligations are permitted by Section 6.1(i).

SECTION 6.5.  Sale and Leaseback .

Enter into any arrangement with any Person or Persons, whereby in contemporaneous transactions
the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries sells essentially all of its right, title and interest in a
material asset and the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries acquires or leases back the right to use
such property except that the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may enter into sale-leaseback
transactions relating to assets not in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate on a cumulative
basis, and except (a) the LEAF Trust Transaction; and (b) without limiting the foregoing clause
(a), any sale-leaseback transaction entered into in connection with an asset securitization
transaction the indebtedness or Indebtedness relating to which is permitted to be secured pursuant
to Section 6.4(k) or 6.4(n).

SECTION 6.6.  Consolidated Net Worth .

Permit Consolidated Net Worth on the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than the sum of
(i) $1,000,000,000  plus  (ii) 25% of Consolidated Net Income, if positive, for each fiscal
quarter ended after December 31, 2004.

SECTION 6.7.  Ratio of Indebtedness To Tangible Net Worth .

Permit, at any time, the ratio of Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to
Tangible Net Worth to exceed 10.0 to 1.0.

SECTION 6.8.     Accounting Practices .

Establish a fiscal year ending on other than December 31, or modify or change accounting
treatments or reporting practices except as otherwise required or permitted by GAAP.

SECTION 6.9.     Restrictions Affecting Subsidiaries .

59 

           Enter into, or suffer to exist, any Contractual Obligation with any Person, which prohibits or
limits the ability of any Material Subsidiary (other than Special Purpose Vehicle Subsidiaries and
Asset Securitization Subsidiaries) to (a) pay dividends or make other distributions or pay any
Indebtedness owed to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, (b) make loans or advances to the
Borrower or any other Subsidiary or (c) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Borrower or
any other Subsidiary;  provided ,  however , that this Section 6.9 shall not apply to
(A) any tangible net worth requirements and/or restrictions applicable to PHH Home Loans, LLC,
pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Credit Agreement or (B) any restrictions imposed by Applicable Law,
including, without limitation, any Applicable Law restricting payment of dividends or other
distributions by Atrium Insurance Corporation.

7. EVENTS OF DEFAULT

In the case of the happening and during the continuance of any of the following events (herein
called   Events of Default  ):

(a) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by the Borrower or any
Subsidiary Borrower in this Agreement or any other Fundamental Document or in connection with this
Agreement or the Borrowings (or other extensions of credit) hereunder, or any statement or
representation made in any report, financial statement, certificate or other document furnished by
or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Administrative Agent or any Lender
under or in connection with this Agreement, shall prove to have been false or misleading in any
material respect when made or delivered;

(b) default shall be made in the payment of any principal of (or Letter of Credit
reimbursement obligations) or interest on any Loan or of any fees or other amounts payable by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower hereunder, when and as the same shall become due and payable,
whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by acceleration
thereof or otherwise, and in the case of payments of interest, such default shall continue
unremedied for five Business Days, and in the case of payments other than of any principal amount
of or interest on any Loan, such default shall continue unremedied for five Business Days after
receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower of an invoice therefor;

(c) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any covenant,
condition or agreement contained in Section 5.1(c) (with respect to notice of Default or Events of
Default) or Article 

(d) default shall be made by the Borrower in the due observance or performance of
any other covenant, condition or agreement to be observed or performed pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement or any other Fundamental Document and such default shall continue unremedied for
thirty (30) days after the Borrower obtains knowledge of such occurrence;

(e) (i) default in payment shall be made with respect to any Indebtedness or
Interest Rate Protection Agreements of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than
Securitization Indebtedness) where the amount or amounts of such Indebtedness exceeds $25,000,000
(or its equivalent thereof in any other currency) in the aggregate; or (ii) default in payment or
performance shall be made with respect to any Indebtedness or Interest Rate Protection Agreements
of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Securitization Indebtedness) where the
amount or amounts of such Indebtedness or Interest Rate Protection Agreements exceeds $25,000,000
(or its equivalent thereof in any other currency) in the aggregate, if the effect of such default
is to result in the acceleration of the maturity of such Indebtedness or Interest Rate Protection
Agreement; or (iii) any other circumstance shall arise (other than the mere passage of time) by
reason of which the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower is required to

60 

redeem or repurchase,
or offer to holders the opportunity to have redeemed or repurchased, any such Indebtedness or
Interest Rate Protection Agreement (other than Securitization Indebtedness) where the amount or
amounts of such Indebtedness or Interest Rate Protection Agreement exceeds $25,000,000 (or its
equivalent thereof in any other currency) in the aggregate;  provided  that clause (iii)
shall not apply to secured Indebtedness or Interest Rate Protection Agreement that becomes due as a
result of a voluntary sale of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness or Interest Rate
Protection Agreement or Indebtedness that is redeemed or repurchased at the option of the Borrower
or any of its Subsidiaries and  provided ,  further , that clauses (ii) and (iii) shall
not apply to any Indebtedness or Interest Rate Protection Agreement of any Subsidiary issued and
outstanding prior to the date such Subsidiary became a Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than
Indebtedness or Interest Rate Protection Agreement issued in connection with, or in anticipation
of, such Subsidiary becoming a Subsidiary of the Borrower) if such default or circumstance arises
solely as a result of a  change of control  provision applicable to such Indebtedness or Interest
Rate Protection Agreement which becomes operative as a result of the acquisition of such Subsidiary
by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;

(f) the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its
debts as they become due or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts, or shall make a
general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or the Borrower or any of its Material
Subsidiaries shall commence any case, proceeding or other action seeking to have an order for
relief entered on its behalf as debtor or to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, liquidation, dissolution or composition of it or its debts
under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors or seeking
appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for all or any
substantial part of its property or shall file an answer or other pleading in any such case,
proceeding or other action admitting the material allegations of any petition, complaint or similar
pleading filed against it or consenting to the relief sought therein; or the Borrower or any
Material Subsidiary thereof shall take any action to authorize any of the foregoing;

(g) any involuntary case, proceeding or other action against the Borrower or any of
its Material Subsidiaries shall be commenced seeking to have an order for relief entered against it
as debtor or to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement,
adjustment, liquidation, dissolution or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking appointment of a receiver,
trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its
property, and such case, proceeding or other action (i) results in the entry of any order for
relief against it or (ii) shall remain undismissed for a period of sixty (60) days;

(h) the occurrence of a Change in Control;

(i) final judgment(s) for the payment of money in excess of $25,000,000 (or its
equivalent thereof in any other currency) shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries which within thirty (30) days from the entry of such judgment shall not have been
discharged or stayed
pending appeal or which shall not have been discharged within thirty (30) days from the entry
of a final order of affirmance on appeal; or

(j) a Reportable Event relating to a failure to meet minimum funding standards or an
inability to pay benefits when due shall have occurred with respect to any Plan under the control
of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and shall not have been remedied within 45 days after
the occurrence of such Reportable Event, if the occurrence thereof could reasonably be expected to
have a Material Adverse Effect;

61 

then, in every such event and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the
Administrative Agent may or, if directed by the Required Lenders, shall take either or both of the
following actions, at the same or different times: terminate forthwith the Commitments and/or
declare the principal of and the interest on the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder or
thereunder to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the same shall become and be forthwith due
and payable, without presentment, demand, protest, notice of acceleration, notice of intent to
accelerate or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived, anything in this
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding;  provided  that, in the case of a payment of
principal (or Letter of Credit reimbursement obligations) default pursuant to paragraph (b), the
Administrative Agent, unless it is directed to do so by the Required Lenders, will not take either
or both of such actions for three Business Days. If an Event of Default specified in paragraph (f)
or (g) above shall have occurred, the principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts
payable hereunder or thereunder shall thereupon and concurrently become due and payable without
presentment, demand, protest, notice of acceleration, notice of intent to accelerate or other
notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived, anything in this Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding and the Commitments of the Lenders shall thereupon forthwith terminate.

8. THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH REVOLVING ISSUING LENDER

SECTION 8.1.  Administration by Administrative Agent .

The general administration of the Fundamental Documents and any other documents contemplated
by this Agreement shall be by the Administrative Agent or its designees as provided for herein.
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent, at its discretion, to
take or refrain from taking such actions as agent on its behalf and to exercise or refrain from
exercising such powers under the Fundamental Documents and any other documents contemplated by this
Agreement as are delegated by the terms hereof or thereof, as appropriate, together with all powers
reasonably incidental thereto. The Administrative Agent shall have no duties or responsibilities
except as set forth in the Fundamental Documents.

SECTION 8.2.   Advances and Payments .

(a) On the date of each Loan, the Administrative Agent shall be authorized (but not
obligated) to advance, for the account of each of the applicable Lenders, the amount of the Loan to
be made by it in accordance with this Agreement. Each of the Lenders hereby authorizes and
requests the Administrative Agent to advance for its account, pursuant to the terms hereof, the
amount of the Loan to be made by it, unless with respect to any Lender, such Lender has theretofore
specifically notified the Administrative Agent that such Lender does not intend to fund that
particular Loan. Each of the Lenders
agrees forthwith to reimburse the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the
amount so advanced on its behalf by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the immediately preceding
sentence. If any such reimbursement is not made in immediately available funds on the same day on
which the Administrative Agent shall have made any such amount available on behalf of any Lender in
accordance with this Section 8.2, such Lender shall pay interest to the Administrative Agent at a
rate per annum equal to the Administrative Agent s cost of obtaining overnight funds in the New
York Federal Funds Market (or such other equivalent source of funds, as determined by the
Administrative Agent, in respect of Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars) for the
period until such Lender makes such amount immediately available to the Administrative Agent.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if such reimbursement is not made by the second Business
Day following the day on which the Administrative Agent shall have made any such amount available
on behalf of any Lender or such Lender has indicated that it does not intend to reimburse the
Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall immediately pay such

62 

unreimbursed advance amount (plus any
accrued, but unpaid interest at the rate per annum equal to the interest rate applicable to such
Loan) to the Administrative Agent.

(b) Any amounts received by the Administrative Agent in connection with this
Agreement or the Loans the application of which is not otherwise provided for shall be applied, in
accordance with each of the Lenders  pro rata interest therein,  first , to pay accrued but
unpaid Facility Fees and Utilization Fees,  second , to pay accrued but unpaid interest on
the Loans,  third , to pay the principal balance outstanding on the Loans and  fourth ,
to pay other amounts payable to the Administrative Agent and/or the Lenders. All amounts to be
paid to any of the Lenders by the Administrative Agent shall be credited to the applicable Lenders,
after collection by the Administrative Agent, in immediately available funds either by wire
transfer or deposit in such Lender s correspondent account with the Administrative Agent, or as
such Lender and the Administrative Agent shall from time to time agree.

SECTION 8.3.  Sharing of Setoffs and Cash Collateral .

Each of the Revolving Lenders agrees that if it shall, through the operation of Section 2.20,
Section 2.24(h) or Section 2.24(i) or the exercise of a right of banker s lien, setoff or
counterclaim against the Borrower, including, but not limited to, a secured claim under Section 506
of Title 11 of the United States Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of,
such secured claim and received by such Revolving Lender under any applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency or other similar law, or otherwise (other than pursuant to Section 2.16(f)), obtain
payment in respect of its Revolving Credit Loans or participations in Revolving Letters of Credit
as a result of which the unpaid portion of its Revolving Credit Loans or Revolving L/C Exposure is
proportionately less than the unpaid portion of any of the other Revolving Lenders (a) it shall
promptly purchase at par (and shall be deemed to have thereupon purchased) from such other
Revolving Lenders a participation in the Revolving Credit Loans or Revolving L/C Exposure of such
other Revolving Lenders, so that the aggregate unpaid principal amount of each of the Revolving
Lenders  Revolving Credit Loans and Revolving L/C Exposure and its participation in Revolving
Credit Loans and Revolving L/C Exposure of the other Revolving Lenders shall be in the same
proportion to the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Revolving Credit Loans and Revolving L/C
Exposure then outstanding as the principal amount of its Revolving Credit Loans and Revolving L/C
Exposure prior to the obtaining of such payment was to the principal amount of all Revolving Credit
Loans and Revolving L/C Exposure outstanding prior to the obtaining of such payment and (b) such
other adjustments shall be made from time to time as shall be equitable to ensure that the
Revolving Lenders share such payment pro rata.

SECTION 8.4.  Notice to the Lenders .

Upon receipt by the Administrative Agent from the Borrower of any communication calling for an
action on the part of the Lenders, or upon notice to the Administrative Agent of any Event of
Default, the Administrative Agent will in turn immediately inform the other Lenders in writing
(which shall include telegraphic communications) of the nature of such communication or of the
Event of Default, as the case may be.

SECTION 8.5.   Liability of the Administrative Agent and Each Revolving Issuing
Lender .

(a) The Administrative Agent or any Revolving Issuing Lender, when acting on behalf
of the Lenders may execute any of its duties under this Agreement by or through its officers,
agents, or employees and neither the Administrative Agent, the Revolving Issuing Lenders nor their
respective directors, officers, agents, or employees shall be liable to the Lenders or any of them
for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith, or be responsible to the Lenders or to
any of them for the

63 

consequences of any oversight or error of judgment, or for any loss, unless the
same shall happen through its gross negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the Administrative
Agent, the Revolving Issuing Lenders nor their respective directors, officers, agents, and
employees shall in any event be liable to the Lenders or to any of them for any action taken or
omitted to be taken by it pursuant to instructions received by it from the Required Lenders or in
reliance upon the advice of counsel selected by it. Without limiting the foregoing, neither the
Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent nor any of its respective directors, officers,
employees, or agents shall be responsible to any of the Lenders for the due execution (other than
its own), validity, genuineness, effectiveness, sufficiency, or enforceability of, or for any
statement, warranty, or representation made by any other Person in, or for the perfection of any
security interest contemplated by, this Agreement or any related agreement, document or order or
shall be required to ascertain or to make any inquiry concerning the performance or observance by
the Borrower of any of the terms, conditions, covenants, or agreements of this Agreement or any
related agreement or document.

(b) Neither the Administrative Agent, the Revolving Issuing Lenders, nor any of
their respective directors, officers, employees, or agents shall have any responsibility to the
Borrower on account of the failure or delay in performance or breach by any of the Lenders or the
Borrower of any of their respective obligations under this Agreement or any related agreement or
document or in connection herewith or therewith.

(c) The Administrative Agent and the Revolving Issuing Lenders, in such capacities
hereunder, shall be entitled to rely on any communication, instrument, or document reasonably
believed by it to be genuine or correct and to have been signed or sent by a Person or Persons
believed by it to be the proper Person or Persons, and it shall be entitled to rely on advice of
legal counsel, independent public accountants, and other professional advisers and experts selected
by it.

SECTION 8.6.  Reimbursement and Indemnification .

Each of the Lenders severally and not jointly agrees (i) to reimburse the Administrative Agent
and the Joint Lead Arrangers, in the amount of its proportionate share, for any reasonable expenses
and fees incurred for the benefit of the Lenders under the Fundamental Documents, including,
without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and compensation of agents and employees paid for
services rendered
on behalf of the Lenders, and any other reasonable expense incurred in connection with the
administration or enforcement thereof not reimbursed by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries;
and (ii) to indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers and
any of their directors, officers, employees, or agents, on demand, in the amount of its
proportionate share, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages,
penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses, or disbursements of any kind or nature
whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against it or any of them in any way
relating to or arising out of the Fundamental Documents or any action taken or omitted by it or any
of them under the Fundamental Documents to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower or one of its
Subsidiaries (except such as shall result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the
Person seeking indemnification).

SECTION 8.7.  Rights of Administrative Agent .

It is understood and agreed that JPMorgan Chase Bank shall have the same rights and powers
hereunder (including the right to give such instructions) as the other Lenders and may exercise
such rights and powers, as well as its rights and powers under other agreements and instruments to
which it is or may be party, and engage in other transactions with the Borrower as though it were
not the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders under this Agreement.

64 

SECTION 8.8.  Independent Investigation by Lenders .

Each of the Lenders acknowledges that it has decided to enter into this Agreement and to make
the Loans and participate in the Letters of Credit hereunder based on its own analysis of the
transactions contemplated hereby and of the creditworthiness of the Borrower and agrees that
neither the Administrative Agent nor any Revolving Issuing Lender shall bear responsibility
therefor.

SECTION 8.9.   Notice of Transfer .

The Administrative Agent and the Revolving Issuing Lenders may deem and treat any Lender which
is a party to this Agreement as the owners of such Lender s respective portions of the Loans and
Letter of Credit reimbursement rights for all purposes, unless and until a written notice of the
assignment or transfer thereof executed by any such Lender shall have been received by the
Administrative Agent and become effective pursuant to Section 10.3.

SECTION 8.10.  Successor Administrative Agent .

The Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the
Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to
appoint a successor Administrative Agent from among the Lenders, with the consent of the Borrower,
which will not be unreasonably withheld. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so
appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after
the retiring Administrative Agent s giving of notice of resignation, the retiring Administrative
Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which with the
consent of the Borrower,
which will not be unreasonably withheld, shall be a commercial bank organized or licensed
under the laws of the United States or of any State thereof and having a combined capital and
surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent
hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon
succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring
Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and
obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agent s resignation hereunder
as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Article 8 shall inure to its benefit as to any
actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement.

SECTION 8.11.   Resignation of a Revolving Issuing Lender .

Any Revolving Issuing Lender may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the
Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, such Revolving Issuing Lender shall be
discharged from any duties and obligations under this Agreement in its capacity as a Revolving
Issuing Lender with regard to Revolving Letters of Credit not yet issued. After any retiring
Revolving Issuing Lender s resignation hereunder as a Revolving Issuing Lender, the provisions of
this Agreement shall continue to inure to its benefit as to any outstanding Revolving Letters of
Credit or otherwise with regard to outstanding Revolving L/C Exposure and any actions taken or
omitted to be taken by it while it was a Revolving Issuing Lender under this Agreement.

SECTION 8.12.   Syndication Agent and Co-Documentation Agents .

The Syndication Agent and the Co-Documentation Agents shall not have any duties or
responsibility hereunder in their capacity as such.

65 

9. PARENT GUARANTY OF SUBSIDIARY BORROWER OBLIGATIONS

SECTION 9.1.   Guaranty .

(a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guaranties to the
Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Lenders and their respective successors,
indorsees, transferees and assigns, the prompt and complete payment and performance by any
Subsidiary Borrower when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the
Subsidiary Borrower Obligations.

(b) The Borrower further agrees to pay any and all expenses (including, without
limitation, all fees and disbursements of counsel) which may be paid or incurred by the
Administrative Agent, any Revolving Issuing Lender or any Lender in enforcing, or obtaining advice
of counsel in respect of, any rights with respect to, or collecting, any or all of the Subsidiary
Borrower Obligations and/or enforcing any rights with respect to, or collecting against, any
Subsidiary Borrower under this Parent Guaranty;  provided ,  however , that the
Borrower shall not be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm for the
Lenders or any Revolving Issuing Lender (unless there shall exist an
actual conflict of interest among such Persons, and in such case, not more than two separate
firms) in connection with any one such action or any separate, but substantially similar or related
actions in the same jurisdiction, nor shall the Borrower be liable for any settlement or proceeding
effected without the Borrower s written consent. This Parent Guaranty shall remain in full force
and effect until the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations are paid in full and the Commitments are
terminated.

(c) No payment or payments made by any Subsidiary Borrower or any other Person or
received or collected by the Administrative Agent or any Lender from any Subsidiary Borrower or any
other Person by virtue of any action or proceeding or any set-off or appropriation or application,
at any time or from time to time, in reduction of or in payment of the Subsidiary Borrower
Obligations shall be deemed to modify, reduce, release or otherwise affect the liability of the
Borrower hereunder which shall, notwithstanding any such payment or payments (other than payments
made by the Borrower in respect of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations or payments received or
collected from the Borrower in respect of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations), remain liable for
the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations until the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations are paid in full and
the Commitments are terminated.

(d) The Borrower agrees that whenever, at any time, or from time to time, it shall
make any payment to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on account of its liability hereunder,
it will notify the Administrative Agent and such Lender in writing that such payment is made under
this Parent Guaranty for such purpose.

SECTION 9.2.   No Subrogation .

Notwithstanding any payment or payments made by the Borrower under this Parent Guaranty, or
any set-off or application of funds of the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, the
Borrower shall not be entitled to be subrogated to any of the rights of the Administrative Agent or
any Lender against any Subsidiary Borrower or against any collateral security or guaranty or right
of offset held by the Administrative Agent or any Lender for the payment of the Subsidiary Borrower
Obligations, nor shall the Borrower seek or be entitled to seek any contribution or reimbursement
from any Subsidiary Borrower in respect of payments made by the Borrower under this Parent
Guaranty, until all amounts owing to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders by the Subsidiary
Borrowers on account of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations are paid in full and the Commitments
are terminated. If any amount shall be paid to the Borrower on account of such subrogation rights
at any time when all of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such
amount shall be

66 

held by the Borrower in trust for the Administrative Agent and the Lenders,
segregated from other funds of the Borrower, and shall, forthwith upon receipt by the Borrower, be
turned over to the Administrative Agent in the exact form received by the Borrower (duly indorsed
by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, if required), to be applied against the Subsidiary
Borrower Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in such order as the Administrative Agent may
determine.

SECTION 9.3.  Amendments, etc. with respect to the Obligations; Waiver of
Rights .

The Borrower shall remain obligated hereunder notwithstanding that, without any reservation of
rights against the Borrower, and without notice to or further assent by the Borrower, any demand
for payment of any of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations made by the Administrative Agent or any
Lender may be rescinded by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, and any of the Subsidiary
Borrower Obligations continued, and the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations, or the liability of any
other
party upon or for any part thereof, or any collateral security or guaranty therefor or right
of offset with respect thereto, may, from time to time, in whole or in part, be renewed, extended,
amended, modified, accelerated, compromised, waived, surrendered or released by the Administrative
Agent or any Lender, and this Agreement and any other documents executed and delivered in
connection herewith may be amended, modified, supplemented or terminated, in whole or in part, as
the Administrative Agent (or the requisite Lenders, as the case may be) may deem advisable from
time to time, and any collateral security, guaranty or right of offset at any time held by the
Administrative Agent or any Lender for the payment of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations may be
sold, exchanged, waived, surrendered or released. Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender
shall have any obligation to protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien at any time held by it as
security for the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations or for the Parent Guaranty under this Article 9 or
any property subject thereto. When making any demand hereunder against the Borrower, the
Administrative Agent or any Lender may, but shall be under no obligation to, make a similar demand
on any Subsidiary Borrower, and any failure by the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make any
such demand or to collect any payments from any Subsidiary Borrower or any release of any
Subsidiary Borrower shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligations or liabilities hereunder, and
shall not impair or affect the rights and remedies, express or implied, or as a matter of law, of
the Administrative Agent or any Lender against the Borrower. For the purposes hereof  demand 
shall include the commencement and continuance of any legal proceedings.

SECTION 9.4.  Parent Guaranty Absolute and Unconditional .

The Borrower waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any
of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations and notice of or proof of reliance by the Administrative
Agent or any Lender upon this Parent Guaranty or acceptance of the Parent Guaranty under this
Article  the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to
have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance
upon the Parent Guaranty under this Article  and all dealings between any Subsidiary Borrower and
the Borrower, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other, shall
likewise be conclusively presumed to have been had or consummated in reliance upon the Parent
Guaranty under this Article 9. The Borrower waives diligence, presentment, protest, demand for
payment and notice of default or nonpayment to or upon any Subsidiary Borrower or the Borrower with
respect to the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations. The Parent Guaranty under this Article 9 shall be
construed as a continuing, absolute and unconditional guaranty of payment without regard to (a) the
validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any of the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations or any
other collateral security therefor or guaranty or right of offset with respect thereto at any time
or from time to time held by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, (b) any defense, set-off or
counterclaim (other than a defense of payment or performance) which may at any time be available to
or be asserted by any Subsidiary Borrower against the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or (c)
any other circumstance whatsoever (with or without notice to or knowledge

67 

of such Subsidiary
Borrower or the Borrower) which constitutes, or might be construed to constitute, an equitable or
legal discharge of a Subsidiary Borrower for its Subsidiary Borrower Obligations, or of the
Borrower under the Parent Guaranty under this Article 9, in bankruptcy or in any other instance.
When pursuing its rights and remedies hereunder against the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and
any Lender may, but shall be under no obligation to, pursue such rights and remedies as it may have
against any Subsidiary Borrower or any other Person or against any collateral security or guaranty
for the Subsidiary Borrower Obligations or any right of offset with respect thereto, and any
failure by the Administrative Agent or any Lender to pursue such other rights or remedies or to
collect any payments from any Subsidiary Borrower or any such other Person or to realize upon any
such collateral security or guaranty or to exercise any such right of offset, or any release of any
Subsidiary Borrower or any such other Person or of any such collateral security, guaranty or right
of offset, shall not relieve the Borrower
of any liability under this Parent Guaranty, and shall not impair or affect the rights and
remedies, whether express, implied or available as a matter of law, of the Administrative Agent or
any Lender against the Borrower. The Parent Guaranty under this Article 9 shall remain in full
force and effect and be binding in accordance with and to the extent of its terms upon the Borrower
and its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the
Lenders, and their respective successors, indorsees, transferees and assigns, until all the
Subsidiary Borrower Obligations and the obligations of the Borrower under the Parent Guaranty under
this Article 9 shall have been satisfied by payment in full and the Commitments shall be
terminated, notwithstanding that from time to time during the term of this Agreement any Subsidiary
Borrower may be free from any Subsidiary Borrower Obligations.

SECTION 9.5.   Reinstatement .

The Parent Guaranty under this Article 9 shall continue to be effective, or be reinstated, as
the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any of the Subsidiary Borrower
Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored or returned by the Administrative Agent or
any Lender upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of any
Subsidiary Borrower or upon or as a result of the appointment of a receiver, intervenor or
conservator of, or trustee or similar officer for, any Subsidiary Borrower or any substantial part
of its property, or otherwise, all as though such payments had not been made.

10. MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 10.1.  Notices .

(a) Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be
delivered or mailed (or in the case of telegraphic communication, if by telegram, delivered to the
telegraph company and, if by telex, telecopy, graphic scanning or other telegraphic communications
equipment of the sending party hereto, delivered by such equipment) addressed, (i) if to the
Administrative Agent or JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to it at 1111 Fannin, 10 th  floor,
Houston, Texas 77002 (Telephone: (713) 750-2885; Telecopy: (713) 750-2932), Attention: Leah Hughes,
with a copy to Dakisha Allen, at 1111 Fannin, 10 th  floor, Houston, Texas 77002
(Telephone: (713) 750-3541; Telecopy: (713) 750-2932), (ii) if to the Canadian Revolving Lender, to
it at Attention: John Hall, The Bank of Nova Scotia, WBO Loan Operations, 720 King Street West,
2 nd  floor, Toronto, Ontario M5V 2T3 (Telecopy: (416) 866-5991), with a copy to the
Administrative Agent, (iii) if to the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower, to it at 3000 Leadenhall
Road, Mount Laurel, New Jersey 08054, Attention: Assistant Treasurer, with a copy to the General
Counsel, or (iv) if to a Lender, to it at its address set forth on Schedule 1.1A (or in its
Assignment and Acceptance or other agreement pursuant to which it became a Lender hereunder), or
such other address as such party may from time to time designate by giving written notice to the
Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Revolving Issuing Lender. All notices and other
communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall

68 

be deemed to have been given on the fifth Business Day after the date when sent by registered or
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, if by mail, or when delivered to the
telegraph company, charges prepaid, if by telegram, or when receipt is acknowledged, if by any
telecopier or telegraphic communications equipment of the sender, in each case addressed to such
party as provided in this Section 10.1 or in accordance with the latest unrevoked written direction
from such party. Information required to be delivered hereunder may also be delivered by
electronic communication pursuant to procedures approved by the Borrower and the Administrative
Agent.

(b) Notices and other communication to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by
electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent;
 provided  that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Section 2 unless
otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent
or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it
hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it;  provided  that
approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.

SECTION 10.2.  Survival of Agreement, Representations and Warranties, etc. 

All warranties, representations and covenants made by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower
herein or in any certificate or other instrument delivered by it or on its behalf in connection
with this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the Administrative Agent and
the Lenders and shall survive the making of the Loans and the issuance of Letters of Credit herein
contemplated regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders or on
their behalf and shall continue in full force and effect so long as any amount due or to become due
hereunder is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not been terminated. All
statements in any such certificate or other instrument shall constitute representations and
warranties by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower making any such statement hereunder.

SECTION 10.3.  Successors and Assigns; Syndications; Loan Sales;
Participations .

(a) Whenever in this Agreement any of the parties hereto is referred to, such
reference shall be deemed to include the successors and assigns of such party ( provided 
that neither the Borrower, nor any Subsidiary Borrower may assign its respective rights hereunder
without the prior written consent of all the Lenders), and all covenants, promises and agreements
by, or on behalf of, the Borrower and any Subsidiary Borrower which are contained in this Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Lenders.

(b) Each of the Lenders may (but only with the prior written consent of the
Administrative Agent, the Revolving Issuing Lenders (in respect of the Revolving Commitments), the
Canadian Issuing Lender (in respect of the Canadian Revolving Commitment) and the Borrower, which
consents shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) assign to one or more banks or other
financial institutions either (i) all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under
this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitments and the same
portion of the Loans at the time owing to it and the interests in Letters of Credit held by it) (a
  Ratable Assignment  ) or (ii) all or a portion of its rights and obligations under and in
respect of (A) its Commitments under this Agreement and the same portion of the Loans (other than
Competitive Loans) at the time owing to it or (B) the Competitive Loans at the time owing to it (a
  Non-Ratable Assignment    provided  that (1) each Non-Ratable Assignment shall be
of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all of the assigning Lender s rights and
obligations in respect of the Loans and the Revolving Commitment (if applicable) which are the
subject of such assignment, (2) each Ratable Assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying,
percentage of the assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, (3) the amount

69 

of
the Revolving Commitment or Competitive Loans, as the case may be, of the assigning Lender subject
to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to
such assignment is delivered to the Lender) shall be in a minimum Dollar Equivalent Amount of
$5,000,000 unless such assignment is an assignment of all of the assigning Lender s rights and
obligations under this
Agreement or unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, (4) any
assignee or all or a portion of the Canadian Commitment or of Canadian Revolving Loans shall be an
Eligible Canadian Revolving Bank and (5) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and
deliver to the Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register (as defined
below), an Assignment and Acceptance and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500. Upon such
execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, and from and after the effective date specified in
each Assignment and Acceptance, which effective date shall be not earlier than five Business Days
after the date of acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, (x) the assignee thereunder
shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the
rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the
extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this
Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion
of the assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, such assigning Lender shall
cease to be a party hereto, but shall continue to be entitled to the indemnity and expense
reimbursement provisions for the period prior to such Assignment and Acceptance).

(c) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 10.3, each Lender may at
any time without the consent of the Borrower make an assignment of all or any part of its
interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender or,
if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee.

(d) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the assigning Lender
thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties
hereto as follows: (i) other than the representation and warranty that it is the legal and
beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim, the
assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to
any statements, warranties or representations made in, or in connection with, this Agreement and
any other Fundamental Document or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness,
sufficiency or value of the Fundamental Documents or any other instrument or document furnished
pursuant hereto or thereto; (ii) such Lender assignor makes no representation or warranty and
assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the
performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under the Fundamental
Documents; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together
with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Sections 5.1(a) and
5.1(b) (or if none of such financial statements shall have then been delivered, then copies of the
financial statements referred to in Section 3.4) and such other documents and information as it has
deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and
Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the assigning Lender,
the Administrative Agent, or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it
shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not
taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative
Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Fundamental
Documents as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such
powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vi) such assignee agrees that it will be bound by
the provisions of this Agreement and will perform in accordance with its terms all of the
obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.

70 

(e) The Administrative Agent, on behalf of the Borrower, shall maintain at its
address at which notices are to be given to it pursuant to Section 10.1, a copy of each Assignment
and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the
Lenders and the Commitments of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, and participations in
Letters of Credit of, each Lender from time to time (the   Register  ). The entries in the
Register shall be conclusive, in the
absence of manifest error, and the Borrower, any Subsidiary Borrower, the Administrative
Agent, the Revolving Issuing Lenders and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded
in the Register as the owner of a Loan or other obligation hereunder as the owner thereof for all
purposes of this Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents, notwithstanding any notice to the
contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any
reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.

(f) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender
and an assignee and the processing and recordation fee, the Administrative Agent (subject to the
right, if any, of the Borrower to require its consent thereto) shall, if such Assignment and
Acceptance has been completed and is substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, (i) accept such
Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii)
give prompt written notice thereof to the Borrower.

(g) Each of the Lenders may without the consent of the Borrower, any Subsidiary
Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Revolving Issuing Lender sell participations to one or
more banks or other financial institutions (a   Participant  ) in all or a portion of its
rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its
Revolving Commitment and the Loans owing to it and the participations in Letters of Credit held by
it);  provided  that (i) any such Lender s obligations under this Agreement shall remain
unchanged, (ii) such participant shall not be granted any voting rights under this Agreement,
except with respect to matters requiring the consent of each of the Lenders hereunder, (iii) any
such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such
obligations, (iv) the participating banks or other entities shall be entitled to the cost
protection provisions contained in Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.18 hereof but a participant shall not
be entitled to receive pursuant to such provisions an amount larger than its share of the amount to
which the Lender granting such participation would have been entitled to receive, and (v) the
Borrower, any applicable Subsidiary Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall
continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and
obligations under this Agreement.

(h) The Lenders may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed
assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 10.3, disclose to the assignee or participant
or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary
Borrower furnished to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders by or on behalf of the Borrower and
such Subsidiary Borrower.

(i) The Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower consents that any Lender may at any
time and from time to time pledge, or otherwise grant a security interest in, any Loan, including
any such pledge or grant to any Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such
pledge or grant;  provided  that no such pledge or grant shall release a Lender from any of
its obligations hereunder or substitute any such assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.

(j) The Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower, upon receipt of written notice from
the relevant Lender, agrees to issue promissory notes evidencing Loans made hereunder to any Lender
requiring promissory notes to facilitate transactions of the type described in paragraph (i) above.

71 

SECTION 10.4.   Expenses; Documentary Taxes .

Whether or not the transactions hereby contemplated shall be consummated, the Borrower and
each Subsidiary Borrower agrees to pay all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger in connection with the syndication, preparation,
execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the making of the Loans and issuance
and administration of the Letters of Credit, including but not limited to the reasonable fees and
disbursements of Simpson Thacher   Bartlett LLP, counsel to the Administrative Agent, as well as
all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Lenders and the Administrative Agent in
connection with any restructuring or workout of this Agreement or the Letters of Credit or in
connection with the enforcement or protection of the rights of the Lenders and the Administrative
Agent in connection with this Agreement or the Letters of Credit or any other Fundamental Document,
and with respect to any action which may be instituted by any Person against any Lender, any
Revolving Issuing Lender or the Administrative Agent in respect of the foregoing, or as a result of
any transaction, action or nonaction arising from the foregoing, including but not limited to the
fees and disbursements of any counsel for the Lenders or any Revolving Issuing Lender. Such
payments shall be made on the date of execution of this Agreement and thereafter promptly on
demand. The Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower agrees that it shall indemnify the
Administrative Agent, the Revolving Issuing Lenders and the Lenders from, and hold them harmless
against, any documentary taxes, assessments or charges made by any Governmental Authority by reason
of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the issuance of any Letters of Credit or any
other Fundamental Document. The obligations of the Borrower and each Subsidiary under this Section
shall be joint and several obligations and shall survive the termination of this Agreement and/or
the payment of the Loans and/or expiration of the Letters of Credit for two years.

SECTION 10.5.   Indemnity .

Further, by the execution hereof, the Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the Revolving Issuing Lenders and
the Lenders and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents (each, an
  Indemnified Party  ) from and against any and all expenses (including reasonable fees and
disbursements of counsel), losses, claims, damages and liabilities arising out of any claim,
litigation, investigation or proceeding (regardless of whether any such Indemnified Party is a
party thereto) in any way relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, but excluding therefrom
all expenses, losses, claims, damages, and liabilities to the extent arising out of or resulting
from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnified Party seeking indemnification,
 provided  that neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary Borrower shall be liable for the fees
and expenses of more than one separate firm for all such Indemnified Parties (unless there shall
exist an actual conflict of interest among such Persons, and in such case, not more than two
separate firms) in connection with any one such action or any separate but substantially similar or
related actions in the same jurisdiction, nor shall the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower be
liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without the Borrower s written consent, and
 provided ,  further , that this Section 10.5 shall not be construed to expand the
scope of the reimbursement obligations specified in Section 10.4. The obligations of the Borrower
and any Subsidiary Borrower under this Section 10.5 shall be joint and several obligations and
shall survive the termination of this Agreement and/or payment of the Loans and/or the expiration
of the Letters of Credit.

SECTION 10.6.   CHOICE OF LAW .

THIS AGREEMENT HAS BEEN EXECUTED AND DELIVERED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND SHALL IN ALL
RESPECTS BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, AND
GOVERNED BY, THE LAWS OF SUCH STATE APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO

72 

BE PERFORMED WHOLLY
WITHIN SUCH STATE AND, IN THE CASE OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO INTEREST RATES, ANY APPLICABLE LAWS OF
THE UNITED STATES.

SECTION 10.7.   No Waiver .

No failure on the part of the Administrative Agent, any Revolving Issuing Lender or any Lender
to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder or with regard to the
Letters of Credit shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of
any such right, power or remedy preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of
any other right, power or remedy. All remedies hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of
any other remedies provided by law.

SECTION 10.8.  Extension of Maturity .

Except as otherwise specifically provided in Article 7, should any payment of principal of or
interest on the Loans made hereunder or any other amount due hereunder become due and payable on a
day other than a Business Day, the maturity thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding
Business Day and, in the case of principal, interest shall be payable thereon at the rate herein
specified during such extension.

SECTION 10.9.   Amendments, etc. 

(a) Except as set forth in Section 10.9(b), no modification, amendment or waiver of
any provision of this Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, and no consent to any departure
by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower herefrom or therefrom, shall in any event be effective
unless the same shall be in writing and signed or consented to in writing by the Required Lenders,
and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the
purpose for which given;  provided  that no such modification or amendment shall without the
written consent of each Lender affected thereby (x) increase or extend the expiration date of the
Revolving Commitment of a Lender or postpone or waive any scheduled reduction in the Revolving
Commitments, (y) alter the stated maturity or principal amount of any installment of any Loan, or
due date of any Letter of Credit reimbursement obligation or decrease the rate of interest payable
thereon, or the rate at which the Facility Fees the Utilization Fees or letter of credit fees are
paid or (z) waive a default under Section 7(b) with respect to a scheduled principal installment of
any Loan or payment of a Letter of Credit reimbursement obligation or scheduled payment of interest
or fees;  provided   further , that no such modification or amendment shall without the
written consent of all of the Lenders (i) amend or modify any provision of this Agreement which
provides for the unanimous consent or approval of the Lenders, (ii) amend this Section 10.9 (except
as provided in Section 10.9(b)) or the definition of Required Lenders or Supermajority Lenders or
(iii) release the Borrower from its obligations under the Parent Guaranty. No such amendment or
modification may adversely affect the rights and obligations of the Administrative Agent or any
Revolving Issuing Lender hereunder without its prior written consent. No such amendment or
modification of the provisions relating solely to the Canadian Revolving Commitment and the
extensions of credit thereunder shall be permitted without the prior written consent of the
Canadian Revolving Lender;  provided  that any such amendment or modification shall be
permitted upon the written consent of
the Canadian Revolving Lender, the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and the Canadian
Subsidiary Borrower;  provided   further , that any amendment or modification of this
Agreement not directly affecting the Canadian Revolving Lender, the Canadian Revolving Commitment
or the extensions or credit made thereunder shall be permitted without regard to the percentage of
the aggregate Commitments constituting the Canadian Revolving Commitment or the extensions of
credit outstanding thereunder. No notice to or demand on the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower
shall entitle the Borrower or such Subsidiary Borrower to any other or further notice or demand in
the same, similar or other circumstances.

73 

(b) This Agreement may be amended without consent of the Lenders, so long as no
Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as follows:

(i) This Agreement will be amended to designate any Subsidiary of the Borrower
as a Subsidiary Borrower upon (w) ten Business Days prior notice to the Lenders
(such notice to contain the name, primary business address and taxpayer
identification number of such Subsidiary), (x) the execution and delivery by the
Borrower, such Subsidiary and the Administrative Agent of a Joinder Agreement,
substantially in the form of Exhibit H (a   Joinder Agreement  ), providing
for such Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Borrower, (y) the agreement and
acknowledgment by the Borrower and each other Subsidiary Borrower that the Parent
Guaranty contained in Article 9 covers the Obligations of such Subsidiary and (z)
the delivery to the Administrative Agent of (1) corporate or other applicable
resolutions, other corporate or other applicable documents, certificates and legal
opinions in respect of such Subsidiary substantially equivalent to comparable
documents delivered on the Closing Date and (2) such other documents with respect
thereto as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.

(ii) This Agreement will be amended to remove any Subsidiary as a Subsidiary
Borrower upon execution and delivery by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent of
a written notification to such effect and repayment in full of all Loans made to
such Subsidiary Borrower, cash collateralization of all reimbursement obligations in
respect of any Letters of Credit issued for the account of such Subsidiary Borrower
and repayment in full of all other amounts owing by such Subsidiary Borrower under
this Agreement (it being agreed that any such repayment shall be in accordance with
the other terms of this Agreement);  provided ,  however , that no such
amendment shall affect or limit the Borrower s obligations under the Parent
Guaranty.

(iii) As soon as practicable and in any event within five Business Days after
notice is given pursuant to Section 10(b)(i) designating a Subsidiary as a
Subsidiary Borrower hereunder that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction
other than of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, any Lender that
is prohibited by Applicable Law to make extensions of credit to such Subsidiary
Borrower (any such Lender, a   Protesting Lender  ) shall so notify the
Administrative Agent and the Borrower. Upon receipt of such notice and prior to the
date that extensions of credit hereunder may be made to such Subsidiary, the
Borrower shall (A) arrange for an assignment of such Protesting Lender s Commitments
and its interest in any extensions of credit outstanding thereunder or (B) terminate
the Commitments of such Protesting Lender;  provided  that (1) at the request
of the Borrower and at the Borrower s sole expense, such Protesting Lender shall use
its commercially reasonable efforts to facilitate an assignment pursuant to
subparagraph (A) above and (2) in the event that such Protesting Lender s
Commitments are assigned or terminated pursuant to this Section 10.9(b)(iii), the
Borrower shall pay, or shall cause any applicable Subsidiary Borrower to
pay, to such Protesting Lender on demand in immediately available funds an
amount equal to the principal amount of Loans and/or Letter of Credit reimbursement
obligations, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts owed to it
by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Borrower hereunder;  provided  that in the
case of an assignment pursuant to subparagraph (A) above, the Borrower and any
Subsidiary Borrower shall not be obligated to pay to the Protesting Lender amounts
in respect of the principal amount of Loans or any Letter of Credit reimbursement
obligations.

74 

      SECTION 10.10.   Severability .

Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction
shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or
unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or
unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in
any other jurisdiction.

SECTION 10.11.   SERVICE OF PROCESS; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL .

(a) THE BORROWER AND EACH SUBSIDIARY BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE
JURISDICTION OF THE STATE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK LOCATED IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND TO THE
JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, FOR THE
PURPOSES OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR OTHER PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR BASED UPON THIS AGREEMENT OR THE
SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF BROUGHT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, A REVOLVING ISSUING LENDER OR A LENDER.
THE BORROWER AND EACH SUBSIDIARY BORROWER TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW (A) HEREBY
WAIVES, AND AGREES NOT TO ASSERT, BY WAY OF MOTION, AS A DEFENSE, OR OTHERWISE, IN ANY SUCH SUIT,
ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH COURTS, ANY CLAIM THAT IT IS NOT SUBJECT PERSONALLY TO THE
JURISDICTION OF THE ABOVE-NAMED COURTS, THAT ITS PROPERTY IS EXEMPT OR IMMUNE FROM ATTACHMENT OR
EXECUTION, THAT THE SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IS BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM, THAT THE VENUE
OF THE SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IS IMPROPER OR THAT THIS AGREEMENT OR THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF
MAY NOT BE ENFORCED IN OR BY SUCH COURT, AND (B) HEREBY WAIVES THE RIGHT TO ASSERT IN ANY SUCH
ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING ANY OFFSETS OR COUNTERCLAIMS EXCEPT COUNTERCLAIMS THAT ARE COMPULSORY OR
OTHERWISE ARISE FROM THE SAME SUBJECT MATTER. THE BORROWER AND EACH SUBSIDIARY BORROWER HEREBY
CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY MAIL AT ITS ADDRESS TO WHICH NOTICES ARE TO BE GIVEN PURSUANT TO
SECTION 10.1. THE BORROWER AND EACH SUBSIDIARY BORROWER AGREES THAT ITS SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
AND CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY MAIL IS MADE FOR THE EXPRESS BENEFIT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
AGENT, EACH REVOLVING ISSUING LENDER AND THE LENDERS. FINAL JUDGMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER AND EACH
SUBSIDIARY BORROWER IN ANY SUCH ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED
IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION (A) BY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ON THE JUDGMENT, A CERTIFIED OR TRUE
COPY OF WHICH SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THE FACT AND THE AMOUNT OF INDEBTEDNESS OR LIABILITY
OF THE SUBMITTING PARTY THEREIN DESCRIBED OR (B) IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY, OR
PURSUANT TO, THE LAWS OF SUCH OTHER JURISDICTION,  PROVIDED  THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE
AGENT OR A REVOLVING ISSUING LENDER OR A LENDER MAY AT ITS OPTION BRING SUIT, OR INSTITUTE OTHER
JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER AND EACH SUBSIDIARY BORROWER OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE
ASSETS IN ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF ANY COUNTRY OR PLACE WHERE THE
BORROWER, ANY SUBSIDIARY BORROWER OR SUCH ASSETS MAY BE FOUND.

(b) TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW WHICH CANNOT BE WAIVED, EACH
PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, AND COVENANTS THAT IT WILL NOT ASSERT (WHETHER AS PLAINTIFF, DEFENDANT
OR OTHERWISE), ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY FORUM IN RESPECT OF ANY ISSUE, CLAIM, DEMAND,
ACTION,

75 

OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR BASED UPON THIS AGREEMENT OR THE SUBJECT MATTER
HEREOF, IN EACH CASE WHETHER NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING OR WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR
OTHERWISE. EACH PARTY HERETO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS BEEN INFORMED THAT THE PROVISIONS OF THIS
SECTION 10.11(b) CONSTITUTE A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT UPON WHICH THE OTHER PARTIES HAVE RELIED, ARE
RELYING AND WILL RELY IN ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT. THE PARTIES HERETO MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL
COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS SECTION 10.11(b) WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF
SUCH OTHER PARTY TO THE WAIVER OF ITS RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY.

SECTION 10.12.   Headings .

Section headings used herein are for convenience only and are not to affect the construction
of or be taken into consideration in interpreting this Agreement.

SECTION 10.13.   Execution in Counterparts .

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall constitute
an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

SECTION 10.14.   Entire Agreement .

This Agreement represents the entire agreement of the parties with regard to the subject
matter hereof and the terms of any letters and other documentation entered into among the Borrower,
the Canadian Subsidiary Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Lender (other than the provisions
of the letter agreements dated November 30, 2005, among the Borrower, the Agents and the Joint Lead
Arrangers, relating to fees and expenses and syndication issues) prior to the execution of this
Agreement which relate to Loans to be made or the Letters of Credit to be issued hereunder shall be
replaced by the terms of this Agreement.

SECTION 10.15.   Foreign Currency Judgments .

(a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to
convert a sum due hereunder in one currency into another currency, the Borrower agrees, to the
fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which
in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the relevant Lender (or
agent acting on its behalf) or the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such
other currency for the first currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which
final judgment is given.

(b) The obligations of the Borrower in respect of any sum due hereunder shall,
notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the   Judgment Currency  ) other than that in
which such sum is denominated in accordance with this Agreement (the   Agreement Currency  ),
be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by any Lender (or
agent acting on its behalf) (the   Applicable Creditor  ) of any sum adjudged to be so due in
the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in
the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount
of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable
Creditor in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and
notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss,
 provided , that if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased exceeds the sum
originally due to the Applicable Creditor, the Applicable Creditor agrees to remit such excess to
the Borrower. The obligations of the Borrower contained in this Section 10.15 shall survive the

76 

termination of this Agreement and the payment of all amounts owing hereunder. Each Borrower shall
repay each Loan made to it, and interest thereon, in the Currency in which such Loan is
denominated.

SECTION 10.16.   Language .

The parties hereto have agreed that this Agreement as well as any document or instrument
relating thereto be drawn up in English only.

SECTION 10.17.   Confidentiality .

Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to keep confidential all non-public
information provided to it by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to this Agreement that is
designated by the Borrower as confidential; provided that nothing herein shall prevent the
Administrative Agent or any Lender from disclosing any such information (a) to the Administrative
Agent, any other Lender or any affiliate of any Lender, (b) to any participant or assignee (each, a
 Transferee ) of such Lender or prospective Transferee which agrees to comply with the provisions
of this Section, (c) to any of its employees, directors, agents, attorneys, accountants and other
professional advisors, (d) upon the request or demand of any governmental or regulatory authority
having jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates, (e) in response to any order of any court or other
governmental authority or as may otherwise be required pursuant to any requirement of law, (f) if
requested or required to do so in connection with any litigation or similar proceeding, (g) which
has been publicly disclosed other than in breach of this Section 10.17, (h) to the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization or any nationally recognized
rating agency that requires access to information about a Lender s investment portfolio in
connection with ratings issued with respect to such Lender or (i) in connection with the exercise
of any remedy hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document.

SECTION 10.18.   USA PATRIOT Act .

Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower that pursuant to the
requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26,
2001)) (the   Act  ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies
the Borrower and any Subsidiary Borrower which information includes the name and address of the
Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower and/or such
Subsidiary Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower and each Subsidiary Borrower shall
promptly provide such information upon request by any Lender. In connection therewith, each Lender
hereby agrees that the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 10.17 shall apply to any
non-public information provided to it by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to this Section
10.18.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of
the day and the year first above written.

PHH CORPORATION   

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

Address: 

Taxpayer ID: 

PHH VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC. 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

Address: 

Taxpayer ID: 

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., 
as Administrative Agent and as a Lender 

By: 

Title: 

Name: 

CITICORP USA, Inc., 
as Syndication Agent and as a Lender 

By: 

Title: 

Name: 

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, 
as a Co- Documentation Agent and as a Lender 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
as a Co- Documentation Agent and as a Lender 

By: 

Title: 

Name: 

Signature Page to 2006 
PHH Corporation Amended and Restated 
Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement

INSERT LENDER NAME  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.66>
 9
 y26027exv10w66.htm
 EX-10.66: TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT

EX-10.66 

Exhibit 10.66 

TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT 

Between 

TM
ACQUISITION CORP. 

COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORPORATION 

ERA FRANCHISE SYSTEMS, INC. 

And 

PHH HOME LOANS, LLC 

Dated as of January 31, 2005 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page  

ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS 

1.01

Defined Terms 

1 

1.02

Interpretation. 

5 

ARTICLE II LICENSE TO LICENSEE OF THE MARKS 

2.01

Scope of License to Licensee. 

5 

2.02

Rights Reserved. 

6 

2.03

Appearance of the Marks. 

6 

2.04

Domain Names. 

6 

ARTICLE III OWNERSHIP OF THE MARKS 

3.01

Acknowledgments and Covenants of Licensee. 

6 

3.02

Avoidance of Adverse Actions by Licensee 

6 

ARTICLE IV MAINTENANCE OF QUALITY 

4.01

Quality of Licensee s Services. 

7 

4.02

Compliance and Performance Reviews. 

7 

4.03

Quality of NRT Mortgage Business Offices 

7 

4.04

Promotion and Goodwill. 

8 

4.05

Notification of Breach of Quality Standards 

8 

ARTICLE V RECORDS; AUDITS AND INSPECTIONS 

5.01

Maintenance of Records. 

8 

5.02

Right of Inspection and Audit. 

9 

ARTICLE VI COMPLIANCE WITH LAW 

6.01

Compliance with Law. 

9 

6.02

Government Licenses, Permits, and Approvals 

9 

ARTICLE VII INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION 

7.01

Protection of the Marks. 

9 

7.02

Domain Names. 

10 

ARTICLE VIII DISCLAIMER OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 

10 

ARTICLE IX DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION 

9.01

Indemnification by Licensee 

10 

ARTICLE X REMEDIES FOR BREACH 

i 

SCHEDULE A (Marks)

ii 

THIS TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ), effective as of January 31, 2005
(the   Effective Date  ), by and between TM ACQUISITION CORP., a Delaware corporation located
at 10750 W. Charleston Blvd., Suite 130, Las Vegas, NV 89135 (  TM Corp.  ) COLDWELL BANKER
REAL ESTATE CORPORATION, (  Coldwell Banker  ) and ERA FRANCHISE SYSTEMS, INC.
(  ERA  ) both located at 1 Campus Drive, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 (ERA, Coldwell Banker
and TM Corp. are collectively the   Licensors  ), and PHH HOME LOANS, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054
(  Licensee  ). Licensors and Licensee are hereinafter referred to collectively as the
  Parties   or individually as a   Party  .

WITNESSETH: 

WHEREAS , PHH Member and Cendant Member formed Licensee on November 3, 2004, for the principal
purpose of originating and selling mortgage loans sourced through Cendant s residential real estate
brokerage and corporate relocations businesses and from employees of Cendant and its Subsidiaries,
in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Operating Agreement and the SRA, as each
agreement is amended from time to time;

WHEREAS , TM Corp. owns the Marks set forth on Schedule 

WHEREAS , TM Corp. has previously entered into exclusive licensing arrangements with Coldwell
Banker and ERA whereby TM Corp. granted (i) Coldwell Banker exclusive rights to use the Coldwell
Banker Marks and (ii) ERA exclusive rights to use the ERA Marks, in connection with the operation
of real estate franchisor businesses;

WHEREAS , Licensee desires a license to use the Marks to conduct the NRT Mortgage Business and
Licensors desires to grant such license to Licensee, on the terms and subject to the conditions
contained herein.

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the mutual representations, warranties, covenants,
promises, and agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS 

1.01  Defined Terms . As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:

Affiliate   means, when used with reference to a specific Person, any Person that,
directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under
common control with such specific Person. For the avoidance of doubt, Licensee and its
Subsidiaries shall not be deemed to be an Affiliate of Cendant or any of Cendant s Affiliates.

Agreement   has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.

1 

Business Day   means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday on which
commercial banks in the State of New York are closed.

Calendar Quarter   means the three-month quarters from January 1 st  through
March 31 st , April 1 st  through June 30th, July 1 st  through
September 30 th , and October 1 st  through December 31 st  of each
calendar year.

Cendant   means Cendant Corporation, a Delaware corporation.

Cendant Member   means Cendant Real Estate Services Venture Partner, Inc., a Delaware
corporation.

Cendant Put   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2 of the Operating Agreement.

Cendant Real Estate   means Cendant Real Estate Services Group, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company.

Cendant Real Estate Services Division   means (i) the residential and commercial real
estate brokerage business owned and operated by NRT Incorporated and its Subsidiaries; (ii) the
relocation business owned and operated by Cendant Mobility Services Corporation and its
Subsidiaries; and (iii) the Settlement Services business owned and operated by Cendant Settlement
Services Group LLC and its Subsidiaries (it being understood that for all purposes of this
Agreement, the Cendant Real Estate Services Division shall not include Century 21 Real Estate LLC,
Coldwell Banker, ERA, and Sotheby s International Realty Affiliates, Inc.).

Cendant Termination Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1 of the Operating
Agreement.

Cessation Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 11.04(b).

Coldwell Banker   has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.

Coldwell Banker Marks   means the marks identified as   Coldwell Banker Marks  
on Schedule A.

Control   shall mean, with regard to any Person, the power to direct the management
and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting
securities, by contract, or otherwise; and the terms   controlling   and   controlled  
have meanings correlative with the foregoing.

Covered Books and Records   has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

Customer   means any Person who is referred to Licensee by the Cendant Real Estate
Division and contacts Licensee whether in person or by mail, phone, via the Internet (including by
electronic mail), or otherwise, or who is so contacted by Licensee, about the possibility of
obtaining a Mortgage Loan through Licensee, or who otherwise obtains a Mortgage Loan from or
through Licensee.

2 

Damages   shall mean any and all damages, disbursements, suits, claims, liabilities,
obligations, judgments, fines, penalties, charges, amounts paid in settlement, costs, and expenses
(including reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses) arising out of or related to this Agreement,
and any interest charged by third parties on any of the foregoing.

Domain Names   means the Internet domain names identified on Schedule A or such other
Internet domain name containing a Mark approved in writing by Licensors from time to time pursuant
to this Agreement.

Effective Date   has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.

ERA   has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.

ERA Marks   means the marks identified as   ERA Marks   on Schedule A.

Governmental Entity   means any court, administrative agency or commission, or other
governmental authority or instrumentality.

Law   means any order, writ, injunction, decree, judgment, ruling, law, decision,
opinion, statute, rule, or regulation of any Governmental Entity, including, any federal, state, or
local fair lending laws.

License   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.

Licensee   has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.

Licensor   means (i) TM Corp. with respect to all Marks, (ii) Coldwell Banker with
respect to the Coldwell Banker Marks, and (iii) ERA with respect to the ERA Marks.

Marks   means the service marks, trademarks, trade names, and real estate brand names
(and corresponding applications and registrations) identified on Schedule A.

Mortgage Lending Laws   means any Law applicable to the (i) communication with, and
marketing directed toward, Customers, (ii) application process for Mortgage Loans, (iii) Mortgage
Pre-Approval Decision process described in the Operating Agreement, (iv) processing of Mortgage
Loan applications, (v) communication to the Customer of a Mortgage Loan underwriting decision, and
(vi) closing and funding of a Mortgage Loan as well as the preparation, execution, and delivery of
Mortgage Loan Documents and Mortgage Loan Disclosures (as respectively defined in the Operating
Agreement). Mortgage Lending Laws include the following: (i) the record keeping and reporting
requirements of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (  HMDA  ), (ii) the Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act and Regulation X (24 C.F.R. Part 3500), (iii) the Fair Housing Act, (iv) the Fair
Credit Reporting Act, (v) the Flood Disaster Protection Act, (vi) the Truth-in-Lending Act and
(Regulation Z), (vii) the National Housing Act, (viii) the Servicemen s Readjustment Act, (ix) the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act and (Regulation B), (x) any usury laws or regulations, and (xi) the
Homeowner s Protection Act.

3 

Mortgage Loan   means a mortgage loan (including a home equity line of credit)
evidenced by one or more promissory notes and secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on one or more
residential real estate properties.

Non-Renewal Put   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4 of the Operating Agreement.

Non-Renewal PHH Sale   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4 of the Operating
Agreement.

NRT Mortgage Business   means providing mortgage services to the Customer that include
counseling, efficient processing, origination, and servicing of Mortgage Loans on homes located in
the Territory, which Mortgage Loans are sourced solely through the Cendant Real Estate Services
Division.

Offices   has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.

Operating Agreement   means the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Operating Agreement of Licensee dated as of January 31, 2005, as it may be amended from time to
time.

Party   or   Parties   has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this
Agreement.

Person   means any individual, general partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, joint venture, trust, business trust, governmental agency, cooperative,
association, or other entity, and the heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives,
successors, and assigns of such person, as the context may require.

PHH Member   means PHH Broker Partner Corporation, a Maryland corporation.

Pipeline Loans   shall mean all potential Mortgage Loans which are in one of various
stages of loan origination, approval and processing at Licensee, but which, as of the time of
consummation of a Cendant Put or Two Year Put, shall not have closed and funded.

PHH Sale   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2 of the Operating Agreement.

PHH Termination Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.3 of the Operating
Agreement.

Prime Rate   means, at any given time, the prime rate most recently reported by J.P.
Morgan Chase, New York, New York (or any successor entity).

Purchase Right   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.3 of the Operating Agreement.

Settlement Services   means the provision of settlement services for residential real
estate transactions, including the issuance of title insurance policies (including title search
procedures), loan certification, property tax tracking services and closing escrow services, but

4 

shall not include credit review services, appraisal review services or flood zone
determinations for properties.

Special Termination Put   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4 of the Operating
Agreement.

SRA   means the Strategic Relationship Agreement by and among Cendant Real Estate, PHH
Corporation, Licensor, Cendant Mortgage Corporation (now known as  PHH Mortgage Corporation ), the
PHH Member, and Licensee, as it may be amended from time to time.

Subsidiary   means, when used with respect to any party, any corporation, partnership,
limited liability company or other organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated, which is
consolidated with such party for financial reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States, and when used with respect to Licensee, shall include the Small
Corps (as defined in the Operating Agreement).

Term   has the meaning set forth in Section 11.01.

Territory   means the United States and its territories and possessions.

Transitional Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 11.04(b).

Two Year PHH Sale   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4 of the Operating
Agreement.

Two Year Put   has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4 of the Operating Agreement.

1.02  Interpretation.  Each definition in this Agreement includes the singular and the
plural. The words  include  or  including  when used in this Agreement shall mean  including,
without limitation . The word  or  shall not be exclusive. Except as otherwise stated, reference
to Articles, Sections, and Schedules means the Articles, Sections, and Schedules of this Agreement.
The Schedules are hereby incorporated by reference into and shall be deemed a part of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II 
LICENSE TO LICENSEE OF THE MARKS 

2.01  Scope of License to Licensee . During the Term and subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Licensors hereby grants to Licensee a royalty-free, non-exclusive,
non-assignable, non-transferable, non-sublicenseable right and license to use in the Territory the:

(i) Marks as trademarks and service marks and in its trade or assumed name (but
not corporate name), and

(ii) Domain Names,

5 

in connection solely with the offering of products and services (and the advertisement, promotion,
and marketing of such products and services) in the NRT Mortgage Business (the   License  ).

2.02  Rights Reserved . Subject to the exclusivity provisions set forth in Article II
of the SRA, for the avoidance of doubt, Licensors hereby reserve the right to use and grant others
the right to use the Marks alone or in association with any other trademark, service mark, domain
name, or name, as trademarks, service marks, domain names, and/or names for any purpose whatsoever.

2.03  Appearance of the Marks . The Marks may only be used under the License in the
same manner, including in the same style, typeface, and graphic appearance, depicted on Schedule A.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Licensee may not combine the Marks with any
other trademark or service mark (including any logo, design, or symbol), domain name (except for
the Domain Names), name, prefix or suffix, or any other modifying word or term or matter without
Licensors  prior written approval.

2.04  Domain Names . Licensee acknowledges and agrees that any use of the Domain Names,
including in connection with any website or other advertising or promotional materials (including
electronic mail sent from an electronic mail address associated with the Domain Names) or other
content available through the Domain Names, must comply with all restrictions in this Agreement
relating to the Marks, to the extent applicable.

ARTICLE III 
OWNERSHIP OF THE MARKS 

3.01  Acknowledgments and Covenants of Licensee .

(a) Licensee acknowledges that (i) TM Corp. is the owner of the Marks in the Territory, (ii)
other than the rights granted to Licensee under this License, (x) Coldwell Banker is the exclusive
licensee of the Coldwell Banker Marks in the Territory and (y) ERA is the exclusive licensee of the
ERA Marks in the Territory, and (iii) the rights of Licensors in the Marks are valid and
enforceable. Licensee covenants and agrees not to challenge Licensors  ownership of the Marks
anywhere, including as part of a Domain Name.

(b) Licensee shall not acquire any ownership rights in the Marks or Domain Names or any other
right adverse to Licensors  interests in the Marks or Domain Names. Nothing herein shall be
deemed, intended, or implied to constitute a sale or assignment of the Marks or Domain Names to
Licensee. Licensee agrees that its use of the Marks or Domain Names under this Agreement shall
inure to the benefit of Licensors, and this Agreement does not confer on Licensee any goodwill or
ownership interest in the Marks.

(c) Licensee shall include the following written notice in connection with its use of the
Marks (or such other written ownership notice as requested by Licensors from time to time):
  insert service mark  is a service mark of a subsidiary of Cendant Corporation and used under
license by  insert Licensee . 

3.02  Avoidance of Adverse Actions by Licensee . Licensee hereby covenants that it
shall not: (i) use the Marks in any way that may tend to impair their validity as proprietary

6 

trademarks or service marks; (ii) take any action that would jeopardize or impair TM Corp. s
ownership of the Marks or the legality and/or enforceability of the Marks, or Coldwell Banker s
right to use the Coldwell Marks and ERA s right to use the ERA Marks; (iii) either directly or
indirectly, apply for the registration or renewal of registration of the Marks or any variation
thereon, or any trademark, service mark, domain name (except for the Domain Names with respect to
renewal as set forth herein), name or other matter which contains or is similar to, the Marks,
without the prior written consent of Licensors; (iv) use (except for the Marks and Domain Names as
set forth herein) or attempt to register in any jurisdiction, directly or indirectly, any
trademark, service mark, domain name, name, or other matter containing or similar to any trademark,
service mark, domain name, or name as to which Licensors or any of their Affiliates have any
registration or proprietary rights; or (v) sublicense any of the Marks.

ARTICLE IV 
MAINTENANCE OF QUALITY 

4.01  Quality of Licensee s Services .

(a) Licensee shall use the Marks and conduct its business under the Marks in a manner designed
to enhance the reputation and integrity of the Marks and the goodwill associated therewith.
Licensee hereby covenants that in the course of conducting the NRT Mortgage Business, the quality
of products and services provided by Licensee under the Marks will be at least equal to (i) the
quality of products and services provided by Cendant, Coldwell Banker, ERA or their respective
Affiliates under the Marks as of the Effective Date and (ii) generally accepted good industry
practice, which includes the origination, processing, underwriting, approval, closing, shipping,
and other origination services on all Mortgage Loans by Licensee in accordance with all Mortgage
Lending Laws and with no less degree of care than Cendant or its Affiliates exercised when they
originated Mortgage Loans prior to the Effective Date.

(b) Licensee shall not take any action that in any way might tend to diminish or disparage the
value, goodwill, or reputation of the Marks, Cendant, or Licensors.

4.02  Compliance and Performance Reviews . Licensors shall have the right to review the
manner in which Licensee uses the Marks, including the right at Licensors  written request to
receive and review samples of materials on which Licensee uses the Marks, including letterhead,
business cards, advertising, signage, and other promotional materials, and other business materials
used in connection with the Marks, to ensure that Licensee is complying with the provisions hereof,
and Licensors reserves its right to require written approval of such materials prior to Licensee s
use of the same. If Licensors determines, in its discretion, that Licensee has failed to comply
with the quality provisions set forth in this Agreement, such failure shall be deemed a default
under this Agreement, and Licensors shall have the right to terminate this Agreement as provided
for in Section 11.03.

4.03  Quality of NRT Mortgage Business Offices . Licensee shall:

(i) maintain a high moral and ethical standard of operation at each office
servicing the NRT Mortgage Business (the   Offices  

7 

(ii) maintain each of its Offices in a clean, attractive, and orderly
condition;

(iii) provide efficient, courteous, and high-quality services to the Customers
at each Office or via any telecommunication process such as telephone or the
Internet;

(iv) comply with Licensors  reasonable requirements so as to maintain the high
quality of each Office and telecommunication processes; and

(v) conduct the NRT Mortgage Business in the manner set forth under the
Operating Agreement and the SRA.

4.04  Promotion and Goodwill .

(a) Licensee shall:

(i) advertise and promote the NRT Mortgage Business subject to Licensors 
reasonable requirements as to form and content of all advertising and promotional
material;

(ii) not make or publish any statement or advertisement which would reasonably
be expected to be construed to demean the image, value, identity, reputation, or
goodwill associated with Cendant, Licensors, or any Mark; and

(iii) advertise only in a manner that is professional, dignified, and not
intentionally misleading.

(b) Licensee acknowledges that its compliance with the quality provisions of this Agreement is
essential to preserve the goodwill of the Marks and the integrity of the NRT Mortgage Business.

4.05  Notification of Breach of Quality Standards.  Licensors shall promptly deliver to
Licensee written notice of any material breach by Licensee with respect to the quality standards
contained herein.

ARTICLE V 
RECORDS; AUDITS AND INSPECTIONS 

5.01  Maintenance of Records . Licensee shall maintain accurate books, records, and
accounts, including financial and accounting records, relating to the NRT Mortgage Business (and
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause its independent accountants to retain their
working papers), including with respect to the determination of compliance with the quality
provisions set forth in Article IV (such books, records, and accounts, collectively, the  Covered
Books and Records ).

8 

5.02  Right of Inspection and Audit .

(a) Licensors and their Affiliates, and their officers, employees, and agents, including
third-party attorneys and accountants and auditors, and regulatory officials with regulatory
authority over Licensors, may, during the Term and for a period of three (3) years following any
termination of this Agreement (or longer to the extent of any applicable statute of limitations or
any dispute hereunder), perform reviews, including onsite visits and an audit of the Covered Books
and Records to ensure that Licensee is conducting its activities and performing its obligations
under this Agreement in accordance with all Mortgage Lending Laws and the provisions of this
Agreement. In connection therewith, Licensee shall provide to such Person, during normal business
hours and with reasonable advance notice, access to such Covered Books and Records as Licensors may
reasonably request for the purpose of carrying out such reviews. Licensors shall have the right to
make copies or extracts of the Covered Books and Records.

(b) Licensors shall be permitted, during the Term and for a period of three (3) years
following the Term (or longer to the extent of any applicable statute of limitations or any dispute
hereunder), during normal business hours and with reasonable advance notice, to meet with
Licensee s officers, employees, and applicable agents and representatives for the purpose of
reviewing Licensee s compliance with the quality provisions of this Agreement.

(c) The expenses of any inspection and audit conducted pursuant to Section 5.02 shall be borne
by Licensors.

ARTICLE VI 
COMPLIANCE WITH LAW 

6.01  Compliance with Law . Licensee shall comply in all material respect with all
applicable Laws now and hereinafter enacted in connection with the NRT Mortgage Business, its use
of the Marks, and the performance of its other obligations under this Agreement.

6.02  Government Licenses, Permits, and Approvals . Licensee, at its sole expense,
shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining all licenses, permits, and regulatory approvals
which are required by any Governmental Entity with respect to this Agreement and/or the Mortgage
Lending Laws with respect to the NRT Mortgage Business, and to comply in all material respect with
any requirements of such Governmental Entity or Mortgage Lending Law. Licensee shall furnish
Licensors with written evidence from such regulatory authorities of any such licenses, permits,
clearances, authorizations, or regulatory approvals at Licensors  request.

ARTICLE VII 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION 

7.01  Protection of the Marks .

(a) Licensee shall, at its own expense, notify Licensors, within ten (10) Business Days after
it becomes aware thereof, of (i) any use, application to register, or registration of any word,
name, phrase, term, logo, or design, or any combination of any of the foregoing, that might
constitute infringement or other violation of the Marks; or (ii) any claim of any rights in a Mark,
or in any confusingly similar mark, adverse to Licensors  interests in and to

9 

such Mark, or any claim that Licensee s use of a Mark infringes or otherwise violates the
rights of any other Person.

(b) Licensee agrees, at its own expense and as Licensors may reasonably request, to (i)
cooperate fully with Licensors in the prosecution and elimination of any infringement or other
violation of the Marks, including, but not limited to, joining in a suit or proceeding against a
Person making such infringing or other violating use; and (ii) execute any further agreements or
documents as may become necessary or useful in connection therewith.

7.02  Domain Names .

(a) Licensee shall not register any Domain Names or domain names incorporating the Marks, or
any name or mark similar to the Marks, with any domain name registrar. Licensors agree that they
will appoint Licensee as the administrative and technical contact for the Domain Names with the
appropriate domain name registrar.

(b) Licensee shall pay all fees (including renewal fees) associated with the Domain Names to
the appropriate domain name registrar and shall not let any Domain Name lapse by failing to pay
such renewal fees. Licensee shall promptly notify Licensors in writing and promptly provide
Licensors with copies of all correspondence from any domain name registrar with respect to the
registration or renewal of the Domain Names.

ARTICLE VIII 
DISCLAIMER OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 

8.01 EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN AND SUBJECT TO THE OPERATING AGREEMENT, LICENSORS HEREBY
SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED (INCLUDING
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, VALIDITY,
REGISTRABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARISING FROM COURSE OF DEALING OR COURSE
OF PERFORMANCE), REGARDING THE MARKS. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, LICENSEE
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE LICENSE GRANTED IN THIS AGREEMENT AND THE MARKS ARE PROVIDED  AS IS. 

ARTICLE IX 
DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION 

9.01  Indemnification by Licensee . Licensee, at its expense, hereby agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless Licensors and their Affiliates, and their respective directors,
officers, employees, and agents with respect to any Damages incurred, arising from, or based on a
claim by any third party arising, directly or indirectly, from any use by Licensee of the Marks;
provided that Licensors notifies Licensee promptly in writing after Licensors becomes aware of such
a claim. Licensors and Licensee shall reasonably cooperate with each other with respect to 
 such a claim.

10 

ARTICLE X 
REMEDIES FOR BREACH 

10.01  Equitable Relief . Licensee acknowledges and agrees that (i) the Marks
constitute valuable property of Licensors and have acquired a valuable reputation and goodwill;
(ii) violation by Licensee or its directors, officers, employees, agents, or subcontractors of any
provision of this Agreement may cause Licensors irreparable injury not compensable by money damages
for which Licensors may not have an adequate remedy at law; and (iii) if Licensors institute an
action or proceeding to enforce the provisions of this Agreement and seek injunctive or other
equitable relief as may be necessary to enjoin, prevent, or curtail any breach thereof, threatened
or actual, then Licensors shall not be required to prove irreparable injury, and shall be entitled
to such relief without the posting of any bond or other security.

ARTICLE XI 
TERM AND TERMINATION 

11.01  Term . This Agreement shall become effective on the Effective Date and shall
continue in perpetuity unless and until terminated pursuant to Section 11.02 or 11.03 (the  Term ).

11.02  Licensors  Right to Terminate Agreement.  Licensors may terminate this Agreement
upon written notice to Licensee in the event of the occurrence of (i) any Cendant Termination
Event, which termination will be effective upon the consummation of a Cendant Put or a PHH Sale in
accordance with Section 8.2 of the Operating Agreement, (ii) any PHH Termination Event, which
termination will be effective upon the consummation of a Purchase Right transaction in accordance
with Section 8.3 of the Operating Agreement, (iii) the consummation of a Two Year Put in accordance
with Section 8.4 of the Operating Agreement, (iv) the consummation of a Two Year PHH Sale in
accordance with Section 8.4 of the Operating Agreement, (v) the consummation of a Special
Termination Put, a Non-Renewal Put or a Non-Renewal PHH Sale, in each case in accordance with
Section 8.4 of the Operating Agreement, or (vi) the dissolution of Licensee, which termination will
be effective upon the distribution of assets in accordance with Article IX of the Operating
Agreement.

11.03  Termination for Material Breach . If any Licensor, on the one hand, or Licensee,
on the other, fails to discharge a material obligation or to correct a material default hereunder,
Licensee or Licensors, respectively, may give written notice to the other Party specifying the
material obligation or material default and indicating an intent to terminate this Agreement if the
material obligation is not discharged or the material default is not cured. The Party receiving
such notice shall have sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of such notice to discharge such
material obligation or cure such material default. If such material obligation is not discharged
or such material default is not cured by the end of such sixty (60) day period, the non-defaulting
Party may terminate this Agreement immediately by written notice given at any time after the end of
such period; provided that the material obligation has not been discharged or the material default
is continuing on the date of such termination notice.

11.04  Effect of Termination .

11 

(a) Upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason:

(i) Subject to Sections 11.04(b) and 11.05, Licensee s License immediately and
automatically shall terminate, and all rights in the Marks granted to Licensee under
this Agreement shall revert to Licensors; and

(ii) Licensee shall, within sixty (60) days from the termination of this
Agreement (such period, the   Transitional Period  ), discontinue using the
Marks and remove the Marks from all promotional and advertisement materials,
stationery, computer and electronic systems (including all Internet websites), and
any and all documents (whether in written, electronic, optical, or other form) in
the possession or control of Licensee, and during the Transitional Period (the last
day of such period being the   Cessation Date  ) all of the obligations of
Licensee hereunder shall remain in force;  provided ,  however , that
Licensee shall not be required to remove the Marks from internal business records.

(b) Subject to Section 11.05, upon expiration of the Transitional Period, Licensee shall:

(i) destroy all materials utilizing the Marks and provide confirmation of same
to Licensors;

(ii) not use any trademark, service mark, domain name, or name that is
confusingly similar to or dilutive of the Marks, and at Licensors  request Licensee
will assign any rights to the Marks to one or more of the Licensors or an Affiliate
of one of them, as requested by Licensors;

(iii) remove all content from any Internet website corresponding to the Domain
Names, and shall (x) post, at the request of Licensors and subject to the prior
written approval of Licensors, a notice or legend which shall state that the license
granted hereunder has been terminated and any other information reasonably requested
by Licensors, including hypertext links to one or more of Licensors , or its
Affiliates , other Internet websites; or (y) redirect the Domain Names to a websites
of Licensors  choosing;

(iv) take all steps necessary, and fully cooperate with Licensors and/or their
Affiliates, to remove the Marks from Licensee s trade and assumed names and cancel
any recordation of such names with any Governmental Entity; and

(v) change any corporate, trade, and assumed name that uses the Marks to a name
that does not include the Marks or any variation, derivation, or colorable imitation
thereof.

11.05  Post-Transitional Period Use . Notwithstanding Section 11.04, Licensee shall
have the right to continue to use the Marks after the expiration of the Transitional Period

12 

solely to the extent necessary in connection with and until the closing of any outstanding
Pipeline Loans.

11.06  Survival . Notwithstanding any provisions of this Article stating otherwise,
Sections 7.02, 11.04, 11.05, 11.06 , and Articles III, V, VIII through X, and XII shall survive any
termination of this Agreement.

ARTICLE XII 
MISCELLANEOUS 

12.01  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which will be deemed an original but all of which will constitute one and the same instrument.

12.02  Entire Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
Parties and contains all of the agreements between the Parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof. This Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements, either oral or written, between
the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.

12.03  Invalidity . Wherever possible, each provision hereof shall be interpreted in
such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but in case any one or more of the
provisions contained herein shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable
in any respect, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such invalidity,
illegality, or unenforceability without invalidating the remainder of such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision or provisions or any other provisions hereof, unless such a construction
would be unreasonable.

12.04  Amendment . Except as expressly provided herein, this Agreement may be amended
only by a written agreement executed by both of the Parties. Following such amendment, this
Agreement, as amended, shall be binding upon the Parties.

12.05  Binding Effect . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement relating to
transferability, this Agreement will be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties,
and their respective permitted successors and assigns.

12.06  Governing Law .  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CHOICE OF LAWS RULES THEREOF, AND THE OBLIGATIONS,
RIGHTS, AND REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS.  Any legal
suit, action, or proceeding against any of the Parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement
shall only be instituted in any federal or state court in New York, New York, pursuant to Section
5-1402 of the New York General Obligations Law, and each Party hereby irrevocably submits to the
exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit, action, or proceeding. The Parties
hereby agree to venue in such courts and hereby waive, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any
claim that any such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient forum. Each of the Parties
hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any suit, action, or proceeding arising out
of or relating to this Agreement.

13 

12.07  Effect of Waiver or Consent . No provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to
have been waived unless such waiver is contained in a written notice given to the Party claiming
such waiver has occurred. A waiver or consent, express or implied, of or to any breach or default
by any Person in the performance by that Person of its obligations with respect to this Agreement
is not a consent or waiver to or of any other breach or default in the performance by that Person
of the same or any other obligations of that Person with respect to this Agreement. Failure on the
part of a Person to complain of any act of any Person or to declare any Person in default with
respect to this Agreement, irrespective of how long that failure continues, does not constitute a
waiver by that Person of its rights with respect to that default until the applicable
statute-of-limitations period has run.

12.08  Notices . To be effective, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all
notices and demands, consents, and other communications under this Agreement must be in writing and
must be given by (a) depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified or
registered, return receipt requested, (b) delivering the same in person and receiving a signed
receipt therefore, (c) sending the same by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, or
(d) telecopy (promptly confirmed by telephone and followed by personal or nationally recognized
overnight delivery). For purposes of notices, demands, consents, and other communications under
this Agreement, the addresses of the Parties (and their respective counsel, if applicable) shall be
as follows:

If to Licensors, addressed to:

If to Licensee, addressed to:

14 

Copies of all notices hereunder shall be delivered to:

Notices, demands, consents, and other communications mailed in accordance with the foregoing clause
(a) shall be deemed to have been given, made, and received three (3) Business Days following the
date so mailed. Notices, demands, consents, and other communications given in accordance with the
foregoing clauses (b) and (d) shall be deemed to have been given, made, and received when sent on a
Business Day or, if not a Business Day, then the next succeeding Business Day. Notices, demands,
consents, and other communications given in accordance with the foregoing clause (c) shall be
deemed to have been given, made, and received when delivered or refused on a Business Day or, if
not a Business Day, then the next succeeding Business Day. Any Party may designate a different
address to which notices or demands shall thereafter be directed and such designation shall be made
by written notice given in the manner hereinabove required,  provided  that at all times each
Party shall be required to maintain a notice address in the continental United States.

12.09  Headings . The headings of the Articles and Sections herein are inserted for
convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

12.10  No Assignment . Licensee may not assign or otherwise transfer (including by
operation of law) its rights or obligations under this Agreement to any Person. Any assignment or
other transfer in violation of the foregoing sentence shall be void and of no force and effect.
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective
permitted successors and assigns.

12.11  Remedies Cumulative . All remedies in this Agreement are cumulative, in addition
to, and not in lieu of, any other remedies available to a Party under this Agreement at law or in
equity.

12.12  No Third-Party Beneficiaries . Unless otherwise expressly provided hereunder,
this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each Party, and nothing in
this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any right,
benefit, or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.

12.13  Further Assurances and Cooperation . Each Party agrees to execute and deliver
such other documents and to take all such other actions as the other Party may reasonably request
to effect the terms of this Agreement.

15 

12.14  No Strict Construction . The language used in this Agreement shall be deemed to
be the language chosen by the Parties hereto to express their mutual intent and no rule of strict
construction against any Party shall apply to any term or condition of this Agreement.

SIGNATURES APPEAR ON NEXT PAGE  

16 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed on the day and year first above
written.

TM ACQUISITION CORP. 

By:   
     /s/ Eric J. Bock

Name:   
     Eric. J. Bock  

Title:   
     Executive Vice President and  
Secretary  

COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Eric J. Bock

Name:   
     Eric. J. Bock  

Title:   
     Executive Vice President and  
Secretary  

ERA FRANCHISE SYSTEMS, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Eric J. Bock

Name:   
     Eric. J. Bock  

Title:   
     Executive Vice President and  
Secretary  

PHH HOME LOANS, LLC 

By:   
     /s/ Terence W. Edwards

Name:   
     Terence W. Edwards  

Title:   
     President and Chief Executive  
Officer  

17 

</EX-10.66>

<EX-10.67>
 10
 y26027exv10w67.htm
 EX-10.67: ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT

EX-10.67 

Exhibit 10.67 

EXECUTION COPY

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

and 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

December 15, 2000 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT HAS BEEN REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

Exhibit 10.67 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Section 1. 
       
      Definitions

1 

Section 2. 
       
      Mortgage Loan Types/Mortgage Loan Pricing

10 

Section 3. 
       
      Exclusivity

10 

Section 4. 
       
      PHH Personnel

12 

Section 5. 
       
      Mortgage Loan Origination Channel

13 

Section 6. 
       
      Operations

14 

Section 7. 
       
      Mortgage Loan Funding

18 

Section 8. 
       
      Amendment of Exhibit A

18 

Section 9. 
       
      Communications

18 

Section 10. 
       
      Use of MLCC Name and Logo

19 

Section 11. 
       
      Retention of Marketing Rights

19 

Section 12. 
       
      Origination Assistance Fee Paid by MLCC

19 

Section 13. 
       
      Customer Fees and Charges

20 

Section 14. 
       
         * * *   

20 

Section 15. 
       
      Legal and Regulatory Compliance

22 

Section 16. 
       
      Mortgage Loan Representations, Warranties and Covenants of PHH

23 

Section 17. 
       
      Representations, Warranties and Covenants of PHH for Mortgage Loans

23 

Section 18. 
       
      Mortgage Loan Representations and Warranties of MLCC

27 

Section 19. 
       
      General Representations, Warranties and Covenants of PHH

27 

Section 20. 
       
      General Representations, Warranties and Covenants of MLCC

28 

Section 21. 
       
      Records Preservation, Retention, and Reporting

30 

Section 22. 
       
      Term; Termination

30 

Section 23. 
       
      Cooperation

32 

Section 24. 
       
      No Partnership

32 

Section 25. 
       
      Notices

32 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

ii 

Exhibit 10.67 

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

THIS ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT (  Origination Agreement   or   Agreement  )
effective as of January 2, 2001 (  Effective Date  ), is entered into by and between Merrill
Lynch Credit Corporation, a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business at 4802 Deer
Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246-6484 (  MLCC  ), and Cendant Mortgage
Corporation d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation with its principal place of
business at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 (  PHH  ) (each, individually,
a   Party ,  collectively, the   Parties  ).

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, MLCC is in the business of originating residential Mortgage Loans (as defined
herein);

WHEREAS, PHH is in the business of originating Mortgage Loans and providing certain
origination and processing services to other mortgage lenders and desires to provide those services
to MLCC as more particularly set forth in this Agreement;

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to a Mortgage Loan Purchase and Services Agreement dated as
of September 24, 1997, as thereafter amended (the   Initial Purchase and Servicing
Agreement  ), pursuant to which PHH provided certain origination services to MLCC; and

WHEREAS, PHH and MLCC are parties to a Termination Agreement, dated as of the date hereof,
which agreement shall terminate the existing origination agreement between PHH and MLCC, as and to
the extent provided in the Termination Agreement, and each of MLCC and PHH desires to establish a
new agreement relating to origination services;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the
Parties hereby agree as follows:

Section 1.  Definitions . (a)  Certain Defined Terms . As used in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

Account Number   means an account number or similar form of access number relating to
a Borrower s Mortgage Loan or other financial product or service with or from MLCC, other than any
internal identifying number assigned by PHH to the Mortgage Loan.

Additional Collateral   shall mean, with respect to any Mortgage 100 sm  Loan
or any Parent Power    Mortgage Loan, the Securities Account and the financial assets held
therein subject to a security interest pursuant to the related Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge
Agreement or Parent Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account,
respectively.

Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan   shall mean each Mortgage Loan that is either a
Mortgage 100 sm  Loan or Parent Power    Mortgage Loan as to which Additional
Collateral was required to be provided at the closing thereof.

Affiliate   or   affiliate   shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other
Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with,
such Person. (Capitalized terms derived from the word Affiliate (e.g.,  Affiliated ) shall have
the corresponding meanings). For the purposes of this definition,  control,   controlled by,  and
 under common control with  means the direct or indirect possession of ordinary voting powers to
elect a majority of the board of directors or comparable body of a Person.

Alternative Construction Loan   shall mean a Construction Loan which converts to a
PrimeFirst    Loan.

Alternative Loans   shall mean Alternative Construction Loans, Equity Access Loans and
PrimeFirst    Loans.

Applicable Requirements   shall mean and include, as of the time of reference,
collectively, (A) with respect to the Mortgage Loans, all of the following: (i) all contractual
obligations, including without limitation those contractual obligations contained in this
Agreement, in any agreement with any insurer or in the applicable Mortgage Loan; (ii) all
applicable federal, state and local legal and regulatory requirements (including statutes, rules,
administrative interpretations, regulations and ordinances as well as any of the foregoing
requirements applicable to MLCC by virtue of its state licenses, qualifications and exemptions and
by virtue of its being a subsidiary of MLBUSA); (iii) all other applicable requirements and
guidelines of each investor, insurer, governmental agency, board, commission, instrumentality and
other governmental body or office having jurisdiction; (iv) all other applicable judicial and
administrative judgments, orders, stipulations, awards, writs and injunctions; (v) the reasonable
and customary mortgage origination practices of prudent mortgage lending institutions which make
mortgage loans of the same type as the Mortgage Loans in the jurisdictions in which the related
Mortgaged Properties are located; (vi) any Mortgage Lending Laws; and (vii) any applicable MLCC or
MLBUSA internal policies and procedures, as revised from time to time in accordance with the terms
hereof, and (B) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended.

Approval Letter   shall mean a correspondence issued to an applicant for a Mortgage
Loan, in MLCC s name by PHH, approving an application for a Mortgage Loan. PHH shall use PHH s
standard form of approval letter subject only to such changes as the Parties shall mutually agree
from time to time.

Assignment   shall mean a document, sufficient under the laws of the jurisdiction
where the related Mortgaged Property is located, to reflect all transfers of the Mortgage
Instrument and the Mortgage Note.

Borrower Information   means any personally identifiable information or records in any
form (written, electronic, or otherwise) relating to a Borrower, including, but not limited to, a
Borrower s name, address, telephone number, loan number, loan payment history, delinquency status,
insurance carrier or payment information, tax amount or payment information; the fact that the
Borrower has a relationship with MLCC; and any other personally identifiable information.

Business Day   shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which
either (i) commercial banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the City of

  2 

New York or the State of Utah or (ii) the New York Stock Exchange is required or authorized by
law to be closed.

Concession(s)   shall mean, with respect to a PHH Loan, (i) an MLCC approved deviation
from the applicable rate sheet regarding interest rate, origination fee and/or discount points; or
(ii) a waiver by MLCC of certain fees associated with a Mortgage Loan, including but not limited
to, application fee, appraisal fee, or other promotional fees, which causes an addition or
subtraction from the Purchase Price.

Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loan   shall mean a Mortgage Loan the terms of which
are in conformity with the standards, including loan amount and documentation requirements, of
Fannie Mae (also referred to as   FNMA  ) or Freddie Mac (also referred to as
  FHLMC  ) under one of their respective home mortgage purchase programs (such standards
shall be referred to hereafter respectively as the   FNMA Guidelines   and the   FHLMC
Guidelines  ) and any other Mortgage Loan except for Construction Loans, PrimeFirst   
Loans, Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loans, Equity Access Loans or Government Loans which otherwise
meet MLCC Underwriting Guidelines.

Construction Loan   shall mean a Mortgage Loan for the purpose of financing the
construction (or alteration) of a one- to four-family residence, which Mortgage Loan is funded in
installments.

Continuing Directors   means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board
of Directors of either Cendant or PHH, as the case may be, who:

(1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date hereof; or

(2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval
of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such
nomination or election.

Direct Competitor   shall mean any Person listed on Exhibit A hereto.

EDP   means the electronic data processing system used by MLCC and PHH, which are
licensees of ALLTEL Information Services, Inc.

Equity Access    Agreement   shall mean the revolving line of credit
agreement entered into between MLCC and the Guarantor under any Parent Power    Guaranty
Agreement for Real Estate pursuant to which a line of credit may be drawn upon by MLCC to fund the
payment by such guarantor of a loss specified in such Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement
for Real Estate.

Equity Access Loans   shall mean a Mortgage Loan in the form of a revolving line of
credit secured by a Mortgage Instrument, currently referred to by MLCC as  Equity Access  or
 Equity Access Prime  loans.

Equity Access    Mortgage   means the mortgage, deed of trust or other
security instrument (including all amendments and supplements thereto) made by the Guarantor under
any Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate to secure its obligations
thereunder and under the related Equity Access    Agreement.

3 

Financial Services Firm   shall mean any Person that offers, directly or indirectly,
any financial services or financial product.

Funding Amount   shall mean an amount equal to the sum of (a) the Origination
Assistance Fee for such loan plus ( ) (b) the loan amount:  provided ,  however , that
with respect to Construction Loans, the Origination Assistance Fee shall be included in the Funding
Amount only for the first draw.

Government Loan   is a Mortgage Loan that qualifies for mortgage insurance by the FHA
or that qualifies for a loan guaranty by the Veterans  Administration.

Guarantor   means any individual who has guaranteed payment of a Mortgage Loan
pursuant to a Parent Power Agreement.

Information Security Program   means Cendant s information security program to (i)
insure the security and confidentiality of Borrower Information; (ii) protect against any
anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of the Borrower Information; and (iii)
protect against unauthorized access to or use of the Borrower Information that could result in
substantial harm or inconvenience to any Borrower.

Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loan   is a conventional Mortgage Loan the original
principal balance of which exceeds the maximum loan amount for Conforming Conventional Mortgage
Loans specified by FNMA or FHLMC or otherwise does not meet the FNMA or FHLMC Guidelines.

LIBOR Interest Rate   shall mean the interest rate equal to 30-day LIBOR based upon a
360-day year.

MLBUSA   means Merrill Lynch Bank USA.

MLCC Data   means any data, databases, reports and records relating to financial
products from or services with MLCC, including, without limitation, Account Numbers, Borrower
Information, and data derived therefrom.

MLCC Performance Failure   means the failure of MLCC to generate   * * *   .

MLCC Privacy Policy   means MLCC s policy with respect to its Customers  privacy, a
proto-type of which policy is attached hereto as Exhibit D and which may be amended from time to
time by MLCC without the consent of PHH if such amendments are required by Applicable Requirements.

MLCC Services   shall mean the Origination Services.

Mortgage 100 sm  Loan   means a Mortgage Loan secured by Additional
Collateral having a value, as of the date of origination of such Mortgage Loan, at least equal to
the related Original Additional Collateral Requirement.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

4 

Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement   means, with respect to each Mortgage
100 sm  Loan, the Pledge Agreement for Securities Account between the related Mortgagor
and MLCC pursuant to which such Mortgagor granted a security interest in the related Securities
Account and other financial assets held therein.

Mortgage File   shall mean the file containing (a) the Mortgage or other deed of
trust, security deed, mortgage, or any other instrument which constitutes a first lien on the
Mortgaged Property securing payment by a Mortgagor of a Mortgage Note, (b) the Mortgage Note, (c)
the Assignments, if any, and (d) the credit and closing packages, custodial documents, applicable
servicing documents, escrow documents and all other files, records and documents necessary to
establish the eligibility of the Mortgage Loans for purchase.

Mortgage Instrument   means any deed of trust, security deed, mortgage, or any other
instrument which constitutes a first lien or second lien on the Mortgaged Property securing payment
by a mortgagor of a Mortgage Note.

Mortgage Loan   means a domestic, consumer purpose, one-to-four family residential
purchase money or refinance closed-end mortgage loan or open-end mortgage loan. The term  Mortgage
Loan  as used herein shall include, but not be limited to, Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loans,
Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loans, PrimeFirst    Loans, Construction Loans, and Equity
Access Loans.

Mortgage Loan Documents   means the Mortgage Instruments, Mortgage Notes and
Assignments.

Mortgage Loan Pricing   means the interest rates, discount points, loan origination
fees, loan application fee, closing costs and other associated cost elements for a Mortgage Loan.

Mortgage Loan Types   means the various types of Mortgage Loans offered or to be
offered pursuant to this Agreement.

Mortgage Note   means the mortgage note, deed of trust note, security deed note or
other form of promissory note executed by a Mortgagor and secured by a Mortgage Instrument
evidencing the indebtedness of the Mortgagor under a Mortgage Loan.

Original Additional Collateral Requirement   shall mean, with respect to any
Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan, generally 30 percent of the original principal balance of such
Mortgage Loan or such lesser percentage thereof as is specified by MLCC in connection with the
origination of such Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan.

Origination Services   shall mean the loan origination services to be performed by PHH
for and on behalf of MLCC as detailed in this Agreement.

Parent Power    Agreement   means, with respect to each Parent Power    
 Mortgage Loan, a Parent Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities
Account or a Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate.

Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate   means, with respect to
certain Parent Power    Mortgage Loans, an agreement between MLCC and a Guarantor on
behalf

  5 

of the Mortgagor under such Parent Power    Mortgage Loan pursuant to which such Guarantor
guarantees the payment of certain losses under such Parent Power    Mortgage Loan,
authorizes MLCC to draw on the related Equity Access Agreement to fund such guaranty, and has
secured such Equity Access Agreement with an Equity Access Mortgage secured by a lien on
residential real estate of the Guarantor.

Parent Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account  
means, with respect to certain Parent Power    Mortgage Loans, an agreement between MLCC
and a guarantor on behalf of the Mortgagor under such Parent Power    Mortgage Loan
pursuant to which such guarantor guarantees the payment of certain losses under such Parent
Power    Mortgage Loan and has granted a security interest to MLCC in certain marketable
securities to collateralize such guaranty.

Parent Power   Mortgage Loan   shall mean a Mortgage Loan that is supported
by a Parent Power    Agreement.

Person   means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
joint venture, trust or unincorporated organization, or a federal, state, city, municipal or
foreign government, or an agency or political subdivision thereof.

Personnel   of a Party shall mean such Party, its employees, subcontractors,
consultants, representatives and agents.

PHH Change of Control   means the occurrence of any of the following:

(1) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, or by way of merger or
consolidation, in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of
the assets of Cendant Corporation ( Cendant ) or PHH (or any successor entity to either
thereof) to any  person"-as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, or

(2) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of Cendant or
PHH;

(3) the consummation of any transaction, including, without limitation, any merger or
consolidation, the result of which is that any  person,  as defined above, becomes the
beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of either
Cendant or PHH; or

(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of
Cendant are not Continuing Directors.

PHH Competitor Change of Control   means a PHH Change of Control to a Direct
Competitor.

PHH Data   means any data, databases, reports and records relating to Borrower
Information, including data derived therefrom, that are obtained or generated by PHH in connection
with the establishment or maintenance of customer relationships unrelated to the Origination
Services covered by the Agreement.

6 

PHH Performance Failure   shall mean the occurrence of    * * *    Significant Survey
Failures in    * * *    period.

Piggyback Equity Access Loan   means a junior lien Equity Access Loan that is closed
contemporaneously with a first lien Mortgage Loan originated pursuant to the terms and provisions
of this Agreement.

Pipeline Loan   shall mean various potential Mortgage Loans (which are to be further
identified in the Letter Agreement) which are in one of various stages of loan origination,
approval and processing at MLCC, but which, as of the Effective Date, shall not have been closed
 and  funded.

Pledge Agreement   means any Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement or Parent
Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account related to an Additional
Collateral Mortgage Loan.

PrimeFirst    Loans   means adjustable rate loans offered by MLCC in which
the monthly debt repayments thereunder for approximately the first 120 months of the term thereof
are interest only.

Privacy Requirements   means (a) Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, 15 U.S.C.  
6801  et seq .; (b) the applicable federal regulations implementing such act and codified at 12 CFR
Parts 40, 216, 332, and/or 573; (c) Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards For Safeguarding
Borrower Information proposed on June 26, 2000, unless and until such proposed guidelines are
superseded by final guidelines and/or rules applicable to MLCC (such proposed and/or final
guidelines and/or rules the   Interagency Guidelines   and (d) other applicable federal,
state and local laws, rules, regulations, and orders relating to the privacy and security of
Borrower Information.

Program   shall mean the origination of Mortgage Loans for Customers on a private
label basis by PHH on behalf of MLCC pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

Securities Account   shall mean, with respect to any Additional Collateral Mortgage
Loans, the account, together with the financial assets held therein, that are the subject of the
related Pledge Agreement.

Servicing Agreement   means each of (i) the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale
Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2000, between MLCC and PHH, as amended, and (ii) the Servicing
Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between MLCC and PHH.

Significant Survey Failure   shall mean the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * *
*   , or    * * *    Survey Failures within    * * *     provided , that for the purpose of the
definition of  Significant Survey Failure   only , a  Survey Failure  shall mean the failure
of either or both Survey(s) to obtain an    * * *    satisfaction level in    * * *   , subject to Section
38(c).

Standard Equity Access Loan   means an Equity Access Loan that is not a Piggyback
Equity Access Loan.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

7 

Termination Assistance Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 22A(a).

Termination Assistance Services   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 22A(a).

Trademark Use Agreement   means the Trademark Use Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof, between MLCC and PHH, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the
terms thereof.

(b)  Definitions . The following terms have the meanings set forth in the Section set
forth below:

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

8 

Definition 
       
     Location 

Private Label Business Channel

14(c) 

Programs

14(b) 

Proprietary Marks

29 

Rate

14(b) 

Survey

38(a) 

Survey Failure

38(b) 

Telemarketing Origination Channel

5(b)(i) 

Telephone Lines

5(b)(i) 

USPC

3(c) 

(c)  Interpretation . (i) The headings contained in this Agreement or in any Exhibit
hereto are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement. All Exhibits annexed hereto or referred to herein are hereby
incorporated in and made part of this Agreement as if set forth herein. Any capitalized terms used
in any Exhibit but not otherwise defined therein shall have the meaning as defined in this
Agreement.

(ii) In the event that an ambiguity or a question of intent or interpretation arises, this
Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties and no presumption or burden of
proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions
of this Agreement.

(iii) The definitions of the terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms
of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the
corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words  include,   includes  and
 including  shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase  without limitation.  The word  will 
shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word  shall.  Unless the context
requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other
document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as
from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions or such
amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person
shall also be construed to mean such Person s successors and permitted assigns, (c) the words
 herein,   hereof  and  hereunder,  and words of similar impact, shall be construed to refer to
this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, and (d) all references
herein to Articles, Sections or Exhibits shall be construed to refer to Articles, Sections or
Exhibits of this Agreement.

Section 1A.  Effectiveness Upon Closing . Notwithstanding the fact that this Agreement
shall have been executed prior to the Effective Date, no provision contained herein, including,
without limitation, the survival provision contained in Section 41, shall become effective until
the Closing Date (as defined in the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000, by and
between PHH and MLCC). In the event that the Closing shall not occur, this Agreement will have no
effect whatsoever, as if it had never been executed by the Parties, and the Parties will have no
rights or obligations under this Agreement.

9 

Section 2.  Mortgage Loan Types/Mortgage Loan Pricing . (a) MLCC intends to offer its
current and prospective customers (  Customers  ) the full range of Mortgage Loans that are
currently offered or may in the future be offered as provided in Section 2(b) herein. PHH shall be
responsible for developing the various Mortgage Loan Types and establishing the Mortgage Loan
Pricing for all Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loans and Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loans
(  PHH Pricing  ). Mortgage Loan Pricing for Alternative Loans and Construction Loans shall
be established by MLCC (  MLCC Pricing  ). MLCC shall at all times during this Agreement
maintain sufficient levels of staffing and resources necessary to comply with the preceding
sentence.

(b) From time to time, MLCC may request that a Mortgage Loan Type not offered by it as of the
Effective Date be made available to Customers pursuant to this Agreement. If PHH is not so
offering the requested Mortgage Loan Type at such time, MLCC may request that such Mortgage Loan
Type be made available to Customers pursuant to this Agreement and, subject to the third sentence
following, PHH hereby agrees to make such Mortgage Loan Type available to Customers. Upon such
request, MLCC and PHH shall mutually agree upon the cost allocation of the set-up and processing
functions to be implemented by PHH to accommodate MLCC s request. The Parties acknowledge that the
typical start-up time necessary for any such product is   * * *   from the time MLCC and PHH mutually
agree to make such product available. If the Parties cannot agree on the cost allocation and other
necessary terms, PHH shall not be obligated to offer such loan product, and MLCC shall have the
right to make such loan product available to Customers in any manner whatsoever. In no event shall
PHH, without the prior written consent of MLCC, offer to its customers or clients (i) MLCC s
pledged asset program, currently referred to by MLCC as the  Mortgage 100 Program,  or (ii) any
other loan product developed by MLCC subsequent to the date hereof, until, in the case of both
clauses (i) and (ii), such time as such product is generally available in the residential loan
marketplace. Notwithstanding clause (i) of the immediately preceding sentence, PHH shall have the
right to offer to its customers and clients a pledged asset program similar to the  Mortgage 100
Program  so long as such customers and clients establish a Securities Account with an Affiliate of
MLCC and place in such account the Additional Collateral to be pledged in connection with such
pledged asset program. With respect to any Mortgage Loan Type developed by MLCC after the
Effective Date, MLCC expressly reserves the right to trademark or copyright such new Mortgage Loan
Type.

Section 3.  Exclusivity . (a) For the term of this Agreement, inclusive of any
Extension Term, MLCC shall use, and direct its Affiliates to use, PHH as the exclusive provider of
Origination Services with respect to all Mortgage Loans for or on behalf of (i) USPC clients who
have a relationship with a Merrill Lynch Financial Consultant (  FC  ) or are referred by an
FC, and (ii) clients of the Merrill Lynch Investor Services Group (or any successor group) (the
  FC Channel  ).

(b) If, during the term of this Agreement, inclusive of any Extension Term, MLCC or any of its
Affiliates determines to offer Mortgages Loans on Merrill Lynch Direct sm  (  ML
Direct  ), Merrill Lynch OnLine sm  (  MLOL  ) or Merrill Lynch Benefits Online
(  MLBOL  ), MLCC shall use, and direct its Affiliates to use, PHH as the exclusive provider
of Origination Services with respect to all Mortgage Loans to be offered on ML Direct and MLOL, and
the non-exclusive provider of Origination Services with respect to all Mortgage Loans to be offered
on MLBOL, on terms and conditions which are mutually agreeable to each of MLCC and PHH. The
Parties each hereby covenant and agree to negotiate such terms and conditions in good faith for a

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

10 

period not to exceed    * * *   . If the parties cannot reach mutual agreement within such    * *
*    period, MLCC shall have the right to approach and negotiate with other providers of origination
services. If any such origination service provider shall have proposed a bid for such origination
services, MLCC shall notify PHH of such bid and PHH shall have the right, within    * * *   , to match
such bid. and if it does so, MLCC shall be obligated to accept PHH s bid  provided  that the
terms and conditions of PHH s bid (other than with respect to price) are substantially the same as
those proposed by the other origination service provider. If PHH fails to make such a bid or match
such bid, MLCC shall no longer have any obligation to negotiate with PHH with respect to such bid.

(c) As used in this Section 3:   USPC   shall mean the Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc.
business segment commonly referred to as the  U.S. Private Client Group,  which currently consists
of approximately 14,000 FCs and provides products and services in the United States related to the
accumulation and management of wealth, including brokerage and related activities, or any successor
group thereto.

(d) Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement, MLCC agrees to cause its Affiliates not
to directly or indirectly take any actions or act in concert with anyone who takes an action
(including the failure to take an action) such that the resulting effect is that any:

(i) obligations of MLCC under this Section 3 are not performed or are reasonably
likely not to be performed; or

(ii) objective of this Section 3 is not accomplished or is reasonably likely not to
be accomplished.

During the Term neither MLCC nor any of its Affiliates within USPC shall intentionally
discourage, inhibit, prohibit or prevent FCs from participating in the Program; provided, however,
that MLCC may, and may cause its Affiliates within USPC to, decrease or eliminate compensation
levels paid to FCs in relation to Mortgage Loans in accordance with Section 3A(b).

Section 3A.  MLCC Marketing Covenants . (a)     * * *    . MLCC shall,    * * *   ,
notify PHH of its estimate of    * * *.   

(b)  FCs and Specialist    * * *    . For a period of    * * *    from the Effective Date, MLCC
covenants and agrees to (i) cause its Affiliates to maintain the    * * *    Financial Consultants in
relation to Mortgage Loans    * * *   ;  provided ,  however , that nothing hereunder shall
require MLCC to fund or reimburse any such Affiliate for any such compensation, and (ii)maintain
the    * * *     Mortgage and Credit
Specialists      * * *   .

(c)  Alternative Origination Channels . MLCC shall use commercially reasonable efforts
to close Mortgage Loans to be originated pursuant to the terms and provisions of this Agreement
via: (i) Merrill Lynch Benefits Online, (ii) any Merrill Lynch employee

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

11 

relocation program, and (iii) any mortgage discount program offered to Merrill Lynch employee from
time to time.

(d)  Seminars . MLCC, at its expense, will direct a majority of its  Mortgage and
Credit Specialists  to attend PHH s semiannual product and program updates to be held at locations
and times as agreed upon by PHH and MLCC.

(e)  Conditional Marketing Period . (i) Subject to subparagraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv)
in this paragraph (e), until    * * *   , MLCC shall be required to perform the Conditional Marketing
Obligations (as defined in paragraph (f) below).

(ii) MLCC shall not be required to perform the Conditional Marketing Obligations in any
calendar year if, in the prior calendar year, (a)    * * *   , (b) PHH shall have (i)(A) experienced    *
* *    Survey Failure, in which case    * * *   , (B) experienced    * * *    Survey Failures, in which case
   * * *   , or (C) experienced    * * *    Survey Failures, in which case    * * *   ; (ii) PHH shall have
failed, at any time during such year, to comply with its obligations contained in Sections 14 (b)
or (c) hereof or shall have failed to meet any of the standards contained in Sections 14(b) or
14(c) hereof; or (iii) a  Market Change  shall have occurred.  Market Change  in any given year
shall mean    * * *   . In the event of a Market Change, the volume level referred to in clause (a)
shall be reduced by    * * *   .

(iii) In no event shall MLCC be required to perform any Conditional Marketing Obligations
following    * * *   .

(f)  Conditional Marketing Obligations . The following obligations shall constitute
MLCC s conditional marketing obligations (collectively, the   Conditional Marketing
Obligations  ):

(i) 
       
     MLCC will keep in place during    * * *   , a number of trained
 Mortgage and Credit Specialists  to support the marketing of the Mortgage
Program hereunder not fewer than    * * *   ; and 

(ii) 
       
     In lieu of the semiannual meetings referenced in paragraph (c)
above, such meetings shall occur    * * *   . 

Section 4.  PHH Personnel . (a) PHH will provide, supervise and make available such
personnel as are reasonably necessary to carry out PHH s obligations under this Agreement.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

12 

Such personnel, including rate lock personnel, shall be available between the hours of 8:30 a.m.
and 8 p.m. EST on Business Days. Such personnel, excluding rate lock personnel, shall also be
available, as needed, to process Mortgage Loans and contact Customers between the hours of 8:30
a.m. and 5 p.m. EST on Saturdays, except in those instances where a Saturday falls on or near a
national holiday and PHH notifies MLCC in advance that its facilities will be closed on any such
day.

(b) PHH shall    * * *   .

(c) PHH shall, upon reasonable notice, permit MLCC employees reasonable access to PHH s
offices where it conducts Origination Services under the Program during PHH s customary working
hours to observe and assist in the origination, processing and closing of the Mortgage Loans. PHH
shall, at its expense, make available all customary, reasonable office space, facilities, and
equipment for such employees. The salaries, travel, subsistence and other related expenses for
such employees shall be borne by MLCC.

Section 5.  Mortgage Loan Origination Channel . (a) Except as otherwise provided in
this Agreement, MLCC shall actively, and at its own expense, market and assist its Customers in
securing Mortgage Loans through the Telemarketing Origination Channel, as described in Section
5(b). From time to time, MLCC and PHH may agree to alternative or additional origination channels,
the terms and conditions of which shall be set forth in an Addendum hereto.

(b)  The Telemarketing Origination Channel . (i) PHH, with the reasonable cooperation
of MLCC, shall provide to Customers dedicated and exclusive toll-free telephone tines established
and operated at the expense of and by PHH (  Telephone Lines  ), which PHH reasonably
believes are adequate to meet the reasonably anticipated needs of such Customers
(  Telemarketing Origination Channel  ). Such reasonable cooperation of MLCC shall include
the provision of, and the right of PHH to use, the toll-free telephone number(s) now utilized by
MLCC;  provided ,  however , that upon termination of this Agreement, PHH shall no
longer have any right to use or publicize in any manner whatsoever, such toll-free telephone
number. If MLCC is at anytime not bound by the exclusivity provisions of this Section 3, MLCC will
make available to PHH an alternative toll-free number.

(i) Trained PHH personnel shall answer Telephone Lines in the name of MLCC. Such personnel
shall explain to the Customer, as appropriate: (a) the procedure to be followed in obtaining a
Mortgage Loan; (b) the various Mortgage Loan Types available and their associated Mortgage Loan
Pricing; and (c) their short- and long-term financial implications. Such personnel shall provide
counsel and advice to the Customer as to the Mortgage Loan Types that might best serve the
Customer s needs.

(ii) PHH shall    * * *   

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

13 

(iii) PHH will provide Customers, for whom it has made a Pre-Approval Decision that the
Customer is likely to be approved for a Mortgage Loan, with information tailored to the Customer s
individual circumstances. Such information will be designed to enable the Customer to determine
the nature of the Mortgage Loan the Customer may qualify for if an appropriate property securing
the Mortgage Loan is identified and all information submitted is verified.

Section 6.  Operations . (a)  Counselors . PHH shall cause each Customer who
makes application for a Mortgage Loan to be processed through the Telemarketing Origination Channel
to be served by a counselor, processing team or other persons employed by PHH and determined by PHH
to be most efficient under the circumstances. PHH shall cause each such counselor, processing team
or other persons to serve the Customer throughout the entire process of Mortgage Loan application,
processing, underwriting and closing, and to meet the Customer s closing date.

(b)  Underwriting Guidelines . Loans originated under this Agreement shall be
underwritten in accordance with the  MLCC Underwriting Guidelines  which are attached hereto as
Exhibit E and made a part hereof, as may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of MLCC
and PHH, and which shall comply, in the case of Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loans, with the
standards of FNMA, FHLMC and, in the case of other Mortgage Loans, other applicable federal
agencies and investors, as applicable, providing standards for the underwriting of mortgage loans
eligible for sale in the secondary market (hereafter,   MLCC Underwriting Guidelines  ). To
the extent that the MLCC Underwriting Guidelines are amended by mutual agreement of the parties
after the Effective Date, and such amendments are requested by MLCC yet not required by Applicable
Requirements (as if such definition did not contain clause (vii)), any reasonable and documented
incremental costs or expenses incurred by PHH with respect to its performance of the Origination
Services hereunder which are caused by such change to the MLCC Underwriting Guidelines shall be
reimbursed by MLCC until such changes are mandated by Applicable Requirements.

(c)  Mortgage Loan Application Processing . For each Customer who applies for a
Mortgage Loan through the Telemarketing Origination Channel, PHH shall arrange for the receipt by
the Customer, as promptly as practicable under the circumstances, and in any event in accordance
with applicable law, of (i) the Mortgage Loan application for the Customer to review and sign
accompanied by a request for appropriate Customer documents and (ii) all Mortgage Loan disclosures
completed, as appropriate, in the name of MLCC. In addition, and to the extent required or
permitted under MLCC Underwriting Guidelines, as applicable, PHH shall: (i) verify

14 

the Customer s credit history; (ii) obtain an appraisal or other appropriate valuation of the real
property that will secure the Customer s Mortgage Loan; (iii) cause to be conducted a review of or
report on the status of the legal title to the real property prepared by a qualified title company
or other entity acceptable to PHH and MLCC; (iv) evaluate the Customer s employment history; (v)
evaluate information provided with respect to the Customer by MLCC; (vi) perform such other
underwriting functions as PHH deems appropriate; and (vii) communicate a loan decision or
counteroffer to the Customer in accordance with all applicable laws. PHH shall have the right to
select all settlement service providers utilized in fulfilling the processing described hereunder,
except for the services to be performed by Lender s Service, Inc. (  LSI  ) pursuant to the
Vendor Agreement dated as of July 10, 1998 between LSI and MLCC, which services PHH shall request
from LSI pursuant to the terms of such agreement until expiration of the current term or earlier
termination thereof.

(d)  Degree of Care . PHH shall perform the origination, processing, underwriting,
approval, closing, shipping, and other Origination Services as set forth in this Agreement on all
Mortgage Loans and PHH shall process all Mortgage Loans on behalf of, and in the name of, MLCC in
accordance with Applicable Requirements and with no less degree of care than PHH would exercise
when it originates mortgage loans for its own account. PHH shall issue Approval Letters on those
applications which generally satisfy MLCC Underwriting Guidelines. All Approval Letters issued
with respect to Mortgage Loans shall be for loans to be made at the interest rates set forth on the
applicable rate sheet provided by PHH or MLCC, as the case may be, for the product in question,
taking into account the applicable origination points, discount points, Concession and/or lock-in
fees.

(e)  Mortgage Loan Closing . PHH shall use its best efforts to complete the processing
and closing of all Mortgage Loans originated pursuant to this Agreement in the time frame requested
by the Customer at the time of Mortgage Loan application. PHH shall: (i) prepare all required
Mortgage Loan closing documents in the name of MLCC in accordance with MLCC s applicable state
and/or federal lending licenses or exemption, as the case may be; (ii) arrange for their execution
by Customer, as appropriate; (iii) provide the Customer with a copy of the MLCC Privacy Policy in
accordance with the Privacy Requirements; and (iv) arrange for the Mortgage Loan closing. All
Mortgage Loans shall be closed in the name of MLCC. On purchase money Mortgage Loans, PHH shall
meet the closing date set by the Customer or PHH shall    * * *    (unless the failure to meet such
deadline shall be caused by MLCC s non-compliance with Section 6(k), in which case MLCC shall    * *
*   ). For refinance loans, PHH acknowledges and will use its best efforts (taking into
consideration factors such as periods of high volume loan refinance activity (as substantiated by
the Refinance Application Index as promulgated by the Mortgage Bankers Association and subject to
MLCC s compliance with Section 6(k), as applicable)) to perform its obligations hereunder to
complete the processing and closing in a manner consistent with MLCC s policy of closing such loans
within thirty (30) days from the date of application.

(f)  Exception Loans . PHH shall promptly advise MLCC about any application for a
Mortgage Loan that PHH determines does not meet the MLCC Underwriting Guidelines (  Exception
Loan  ). MLCC may, in its sole discretion, advise PHH to process such Mortgage Loan and, if so,
upon what terms and conditions PHH shall process such Mortgage Loans. MLCC shall at all times
during this Agreement maintain sufficient levels of staffing and resources

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

15 

necessary to comply with the preceding sentence. Upon such direction by MLCC, PHH shall complete
the performance of the Origination Services with respect to such Exception Loan. PHH shall issue
Approval Letters on those applications associated with an Exception Loan. All Approval Letters
issued with respect to Exception Loans shall be for loans to be made at the interest rates set
forth on the MLCC rate sheet for the applicable product type, taking into account the applicable
origination points, discount points, Concessions and/or lock-in fees. MLCC shall reimburse PHH for
any reasonable, customary and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in the
origination of any Exception Loan, to the extent such documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses
exceed PHH s normal costs and expenses incurred with respect to the origination of a Mortgage Loan.

(g)  Compliance and Performance Reviews . MLCC, its officers, employees and agents,
including third-party attorneys and accountants and auditors, and regulatory officials with
regulatory authority over MLCC may, from time to time, and at their sole cost and expense, perform
reviews, including, but not limited to, onsite visits to ensure that PHH is conducting its
activities and performing its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with all Applicable
Requirements. PHH shall provide, during normal business hours and reasonable advance notice,
access to such documents, books, reports, policies and procedures, personnel and systems and other
support and assistance as MLCC may reasonably request for the purpose of carrying out such reviews.
MLCC s rights under this paragraph shall survive any subsequent sale of any Mortgage Loan to PHH.

(h)  Access to Documents and Employees . PHH hereby agrees that it shall, at its sole
cost and expense, make available, or cause to be made available, to MLCC or any person designated
by MLCC, in a timely manner, all documents or materials in the possession of PHH that MLCC is
required to supply to any federal or state regulatory body with respect to the matters contemplated
by this Agreement. In furtherance of the foregoing, PHH shall, at its sole cost and expense, make
available, or cause to be made available, during normal business hours and reasonable advance
notice, to MLCC or any person designated by MLCC, resources, including, but not limited to, access
to employees, sufficient to respond adequately to any issue or concern raised by such federal or
state authorities. Any fine, penalty, levy or restitution ordered by any such federal or state
body that would give rise to indemnity by PHH pursuant to Section 32 herein shall be paid by PHH
or, if MLCC shall have paid any such amount, PHH shall immediately reimburse MLCC for such amount.
MLCC s rights under this paragraph shall survive any subsequent sale of any Mortgage Loan to PHH.

(i)  PHH Maintenance of Licenses . PHH hereby agrees that it shall, at its own cost and
expense, obtain and maintain any and all licenses and registrations, and cause any of its employees
to obtain any and all licenses and registrations, that are necessary or desirable in the
performance of the Origination Services to be provided by PHH pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement.

(j)  MLCC Maintenance of Licenses . MLCC hereby agrees that it shall, at its own cost
and expense, obtain and maintain any and all licenses and registrations, and cause any of its
employees to obtain any and all licenses and registrations, that are necessary to permit the
Mortgage Loans to be originated in its name as contemplated by this Agreement and to file required
reports and respond to investigations and inquiries of state examiners in relation thereto and to
submit any reports thereto (including any required HMDA reports). MLCC shall at all times during
this Agreement maintain sufficient levels of staffing and resources necessary to

16 

comply with the preceding sentence although nothing herein shall be construed to relieve PHH of its
obligations to comply with Applicable Requirements pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Further, PHH acknowledges and agrees that it is PHH s responsibility to promptly furnish MLCC with
such information and documentation requested by MLCC that is reasonable or necessary to comply with
its obligations under this paragraph (j).

(k)  Mortgage 100 sm  Loans . With respect to any Mortgage Loan which is an
Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan, MLCC hereby agrees that it shall, at its own cost and expense
and in accordance with MLCC s internal guidelines and procedures regarding such loans as attached
hereto as Exhibit F, carry out and perform in a timely manner all functions associated with the
establishment and administration of Securities Accounts for Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans.
MLCC shall also prepare, process and deliver, or cause to be delivered at or prior to closing, all
documentation necessary in connection with the pledge of the Additional Collateral pertaining to
such Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans. MLCC and PHH hereby agree to consult and cooperate with
each other in connection with the origination, processing and closing of Additional Collateral
Mortgage Loans. MLCC shall at all times during this Agreement maintain sufficient levels of
staffing and resources necessary to comply with this paragraph.

(l)  Work Policy . Personnel of either Party working on the premises of the other Party
(excluding in the case of PHH, premises of MLCC leased to PHH), and all other Personnel required by
Law or government rules or regulations, shall comply with the safety, security and other
regulations of the other Party generally applicable to its outside contractors and Personnel
particular to each work location, including, where applicable, internal security department
fingerprinting, photographing and screening processes. Personnel of a Party, when deemed
appropriate by the other Party, will be issued visitor identification cards. Each such card will
be surrendered by upon demand by the other Party or upon termination of this Agreement or
completion of the relevant MLCC Services. Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, Personnel of
each Party will observe the working hours, working rules, and holiday schedules of the other Party
while working on the other Party s premises (excluding in the case of PHH, premises of MLCC leased
to PHH). Each Party shall advise the other Party immediately in the event that any Personnel with
security access to any premises of the other Party (i) is no longer assigned to perform MLCC
Services, or (ii) is no longer employed by such Party.

(m)  Use of Hardware and Software . In the event that PHH shall be performing MLCC
Services on behalf of MLCC and any third party utilizing common hardware and/or Software, MLCC
shall have the right, on reasonable notice to PHH and at MLCC s sole cost and expense, to audit
such hardware and Software to ensure segregation of MLCC Data from third party data adequate to
prevent unauthorized disclosure of MLCC Data to third parties, and to ensure the security of MLCC
Data in accordance with normal industry practices, provided that such audit shall not disrupt PHH s
ability to perform the MLCC Services.

(n)  Technical Architecture Standards . On notice thereof, PHH shall comply with all
reasonable MLCC information management technical architecture standards related to interfacing with
MLCC systems, as identified and amended by MLCC from time to time.

(o)  Compliance with Policies . PHH shall, upon notice thereof by MLCC, comply with all
of MLCC s commercially reasonable policies and procedures regarding security and safeguarding of
MLCC Data.

17 

(p)  Continuation of MLCC Services . PHH acknowledges that the provision of MLCC
Services is critical to the business and operations of MLCC. In the event of a fee dispute between
MLCC and PHH pursuant to which either Party in good faith believes it is entitled to withhold
payment of the disputed amount or for which either Party in good faith believes payment is due,
each Party shall continue to perform its obligations under the Ancillary Agreements, including
continuing to pay undisputed amounts. Neither Party shall not under any circumstances suspend or
disrupt, or seek any injunctive or other equitable relief for the purpose of suspending or
disrupting, directly or indirectly, provision of the services to the other Party under the
Ancillary Agreements or the normal business operations of the other Party.

Section 7.  Mortgage Loan Funding . PHH shall send MLCC funding instructions via
facsimile in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B for each funding of a Mortgage Loan or
construction draw related to a Mortgage Loan to be closed by PHH on behalf of MLCC. Upon receipt
of each such funding instruction from PHH, MLCC shall fund the Mortgage Loan at the Funding Amount
by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by PHH. Such account
shall be a custodial account held by PHH for the benefit of MLCC. PHH shall not request MLCC to
fund a Mortgage Loan or construction draw for a Construction Loan more than one (1) Business Day
prior to the date PHH expects to disburse the proceeds of such Funding Amount. By giving such
funding instructions, PHH shall be deemed to have certified to MLCC that all conditions of the
Approval Letter are satisfied, and such Mortgage Loan shall, upon closing, satisfy all Applicable
Requirements.

If MLCC has wired the Funding Amount to PHH as described above and the Mortgage Loan does not
close on the scheduled closing date for any reason whatsoever, PHH will, upon receipt of notice of
the failed closing,    * * *   .

Section 8.  Amendment of Exhibit A . PHH agrees that Exhibit A hereto may be amended
by MLCC during the month of January 2003 and during every second January thereafter by sending
written notice to PHH of such amendments;  provided ,  however , that each such
amendment may change no more than ten Persons on such Exhibit;  provided   further ,
that (i) Persons added to Exhibit A shall be Persons which are Financial Services Firms and (ii)
Exhibit A shall not at any time contain more than twenty Persons.

Section 9.  Communications . (a) The Parties shall develop commercially reasonable,
appropriate and cost-effective voice, data, facsimile and e-mail processes and systems to support
communication between them, including the distribution of products, pricing, service level status,
loan processing status, and Customer information and funding or purchasing of Mortgage Loans. Each
Party shall pay the costs it incurs in developing such communications.

(b) PHH shall provide MLCC on a daily, monthly or yearly basis, as the case may be, the
reports that are required to be provided by PHH to MLCC as of the Effective Date pursuant to the
Mortgage Loan Purchase and Services Agreement, dated as of September 24, 1997, as amended, between
MLCC and PHH and as may otherwise be agreed to in writing by the Parties.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

18 

Section 10.  Use of MLCC Name and Logo . The provisions of the Trademark Use
Agreement, a copy of which is attached and made a part hereof as Exhibit C, are hereby incorporated
by reference as if fully set forth in this Origination Agreement.

Section 11.  Retention of Marketing Rights . Nothing in this Origination Agreement
shall restrict, limit or prohibit in any way MLCC s right to offer other products and services to
Customers and former Customers as well as any other individual or entity.

Section 12.  Origination Assistance Fee Paid by MLCC . (a) For PHH s services
(including the provision of certain facilities) as described in this Origination Agreement, and for
the liability PHH assumes in providing such services and facilities, MLCC shall pay to PHH a fee
(an   Origination Assistance Fee  ) of $   * * *    for each Conforming Conventional Mortgage
Loan, $   * * *    for each Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loan, $   * * *    for each
PrimeFirst    Loan, $   * * *    for each Construction Loan, $   * * *    for each Standalone
Equity Access Loan and $   * * *    for each Piggyback Equity Access Loan processed and closed by PHH
hereunder;  provided ,  however , that with respect to any Pipeline Loan that becomes a
Mortgage Loan, MLCC shall pay PHH in accordance with the terms of the Letter Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, executed by PHH and MLCC (the   Letter Agreement  ).

(b) With respect to any Pipeline Loan, notwithstanding the proviso at the end of paragraph (a)
above, the other provisions of this Agreement shall apply to such Pipeline Loans upon such Pipeline
Loan becoming a Mortgage Loan.

(c) MLCC agrees to pay the Origination Assistance Fee to PHH at the time of Mortgage Loan
Funding as part of the Mortgage Loan Funding Amount as described in Section 7.

(d) The Parties acknowledge and agree that with respect to the Origination Assistance Fee paid
to PHH for a Construction Loan, $   * * *    of such fee shall compensate PHH for its performance of
certain processing and administration services relating to such Construction Loan between the time
such Construction Loan is first funded through and including the conversion of such Construction
Loan into a permanent Mortgage Loan. PHH hereby agrees to perform such services for and on behalf
of MLCC during such period in a manner consistent with reasonable commercial practices associated
with the administering and servicing of such Mortgage Loans.

(e) The Parties agree that the amount of the Origination Assistance Fee is equal to the fair
market value of the services and facilities provided and liability assumed by PHH under this
Origination Agreement as of the Effective Date.

(f) With respect to PrimeFirst    Loans, Construction Loans and Equity Access Loans,
PHH agrees to include, or cause the closing agent to collect, on behalf of MLCC, the loan
origination fee charged in respect of such Mortgage Loans. PHH shall, in accordance with Section
13, cause the closing agent to collect all Customer Fees and Charges from the Customer at closing.
Upon receipt of such funds from the Customer, PHH shall promptly remit to MLCC an amount equal to
the origination fee collected in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph (f).

(g) PHH agrees that if at any time after the Effective Date,    * * *.   

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

19 

Section 13.  Customer Fees and Charges . (a) At Mortgage Loan closing and at such
other times as may be customary, the closing agent may collect from the Customer and forward to PHH
an amount (  Customer Fees and Charges  ) equal to the sum of: (i) all reasonable charges or
fees paid or incurred by PHH for taking the Mortgage Loan application, locking in Mortgage Loan
Pricing, surveys, title insurance premiums, appraisal fees, abstract and attorneys  fees, recording
or registration charges, escrow fees, document preparation fees, credit report charges, tax service
fees and similar charges, and all other reasonable and customary third-party charges for settlement
services contracted for and permitted by applicable law related to the origination of a Mortgage
Loan; and (ii) all origination and discount points or other similar amounts described in the
Mortgage Loan Pricing for such Mortgage Loan.

(b) MLCC may, from time to time, establish and set the amount of the origination fee to be
charged to the Customer as part of the Customer Fees and Charges, and PHH hereby agrees to charge,
or cause the closing agent to charge, each Customer such amount.

(c) With respect to all Mortgage Loans, any non-third party fees charged to the Customer which
collectively exceed $   * * *    shall be collected by PHH and shall be remitted promptly to MLCC.
With respect to any Alternative Loan, any non-third party Customer Fees and Charges charged to a
Customer shall be collected by PHH and shall be remitted promptly to MLCC.

(d) PHH will collect, control and manage all Customer Fees and Charges and any other
application fees, deposits and other fees paid by loan applicants to or for the credit of MLCC and
disburse Customer Fees and Charges in a timely and accurate manner to third-party service
providers, MLCC, or PHH, as applicable (e.g., good faith, deposit application fees).

(e) The amount, payor and payee of any Customer Fees and Charges shall be described in the
Mortgage Loan Disclosures in accordance with the Mortgage Lending Laws, as defined herein. PHH
shall retain and distribute the Customer Fees and Charges to third parties or MLCC, as the case may
be, including settlement service providers, in accordance with applicable law and this Origination
Agreement. PHH covenants and agrees that the payment of Customer Fees and Charges to third parties
shall be made in a timely manner, in accordance with payment terms governing such relationships,
and any failure to do so shall be subject to the indemnity set forth in Section 32 herein.

Section 14.     * * *    . (a) PHH shall, on behalf of MLCC,   * * *  

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

20 

(b) The PHH Pricing shall be    * * *   .

(c) The PHH Pricing for Customers in the Telemarketing Origination Channel as described in
Section 5 shall,    * * *   .

(d) A breach or default by PHH of its covenants or performance obligations contained in this
Section 14 shall constitute a  material breach or default  for purposes of Section 22(a)(i).

(e) PHH shall promptly inform MLCC in writing of any notices it receives with respect to any
lawsuits, governmental investigations and/or findings with respect to Mortgage Loans originated and
closed under the Program.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

21 

Section 15.  Legal and Regulatory Compliance . a) The communications made and actions
taken or not taken by PHH when performing its obligations under this Origination Agreement shall
comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Applicable Requirements and all
applicable Mortgage Lending Laws. As used in this Origination Agreement, the term   Mortgage
Lending Law   means any federal, state or local constitution, statute, rule, regulation or
similar legal requirement applicable to the communication with, and marketing directed toward
customers; the application for Mortgage Loans; the Mortgage Pre-Approval Decision process described
herein; the processing of Mortgage Loan applications; the communication to the Customer of a
Mortgage Loan underwriting decision; and the closing and funding of a Mortgage Loan as well as the
preparation, execution and delivery of Mortgage Loan Documents and Mortgage Loan Disclosures. As
used in this Origination Agreement, the term   Mortgage Loan Documents   shall mean the
Mortgage Loan application form or other document of similar function, the note, mortgage, deed of
trust, security deed or other security instrument, rider, addendum and any other document executed
or delivered in connection with a Mortgage Loan. The term   Mortgage Loan Disclosure   shall
mean any disclosure, notice or other document that, according to a Mortgage Lending Law, is to be
provided to a Customer by or on behalf of MLCC in connection with a Mortgage Loan and an
application for a Mortgage Loan. Mortgage Lending Laws include, but are not limited to, the
following:

(i) the record keeping and reporting requirements of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act
(  HMDA  

(ii) The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Regulation X (24 C.F.R. Part 3500);

(iii) The Fair Housing Act;

(iv) The Fair Credit Reporting Act;

(v) The Flood Disaster Protection Act;

(vi) The Truth-in-Lending Act and (Regulation Z);

(vii) The National Housing Act;

(viii) The Servicemen s Readjustment Act;

(ix) The Equal Credit Opportunity Act and (Regulation B);

(x) Usury limitations; and

(xi) The Homeowner s Protection Act.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 13(a), PHH shall have no obligation under this
Origination Agreement with respect to a violation of a Mortgage Lending Law if such violation is
due to the failure of MLCC to perform one or more of its duties or obligations under this
Agreement.

(c) Each party shall keep in full effect their respective existences, rights and franchises or
corporations in the states of their incorporation except as permitted herein, and will

22 

obtain and preserve their respective qualifications to do business as foreign entities in each
jurisdiction in which such qualification is or shall be necessary to protect the validity and
enforceability of this Agreement or any of the Mortgage Loans and/or to perform their respective
duties under this Agreement.

(d) PHH shall not make any HOEPA High Cost or Section 32 loans on behalf of MLCC under this
Program or otherwise engage in activities in performing Origination Services hereunder that would
be generally viewed by the mortgage industry to be  predatory. 

(e) PHH shall promptly inform MLCC in writing of any notices it receives with respect to any
lawsuits, governmental investigations and/or findings with respect to Mortgage Loans originated and
closed under the Program.

Section 16.  Mortgage Loan Representations, Warranties and Covenants of PHH . Except
as otherwise provided in Section 15(b), PHH represents, warrants and covenants to MLCC, with
respect to each Mortgage Loan processed or closed by PHH under the terms of this Origination
Agreement, as of the date of the Mortgage Loan s closing, that:

(a) Each Mortgage Loan underwritten and approved by PHH for closing meets MLCC
Underwriting Guidelines and Mortgage Loan Pricing applicable to that Mortgage Loan Type in
all material respects.

(b) The procedures used by PHH to receive and process applications and apply the MLCC
Underwriting Guidelines, as applicable, to such applications and close and fund Mortgage
Loans comply in all material respects with all Applicable Requirements, including but not
limited to the Mortgage Lending Laws, and the applicable rules and regulations under all
such laws.

Section 17.  Representations. Warranties and Covenants of PHH for Mortgage Loans .
PHH hereby represents and warrants to MLCC, as to each Mortgage Loan processed by PHH under this
Agreement (including those loans for which no closing occurs, to the extent applicable), and as of
each respective closing date or such other date as may be specified below, that:

(a) With respect to those Mortgage Loans for which there is a requirement to deposit
funds into an escrow account for payment of taxes, assessments, insurance premiums and
similar items as they become due, there are no delinquent taxes, ground rents, water
charges, sewer rents, assessments or other outstanding charges which constitute a lien on
the related Mortgaged Property. No escrow deposits or escrow payments or other charges or
payments due have been capitalized under the related Mortgage or Mortgage Note;

(b) The terms of the Mortgage Note and the Mortgage have not been impaired, waived,
altered or modified in any respect, except by written instruments contained in the Mortgage
File, approved, if necessary, by any insurer under any primary insurance policy and recorded
in all places necessary to maintain the first priority of the lien;

(c) All buildings upon the Mortgaged Property are required to be insured by a generally
acceptable insurer against loss by fire, hazards of extended coverage and such

23 

other hazards as are customarily included in extended coverage in the area where the
Mortgaged Property is located, pursuant to standard hazard insurance policies in an amount
which is equal to the lesser of (A) the replacement cost of the improvements securing such
Mortgage Loan or (B) the principal balance owing on such Mortgage Loan. To the best
knowledge of PHH, all such standard hazard policies are in effect. On the date of
origination, such standard hazard policies contained a standard mortgagee clause naming MLCC
or the originator of the Mortgage Loan and their respective successors in interest as
mortgagee and, to the best knowledge of PHH, such clause is still in effect and, to the best
of PHH s knowledge, all premiums due thereon have been paid. If the Mortgaged Property is
located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as having special
flood hazards under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1994, as amended, such Mortgaged
Property is covered by flood insurance in the amount required under the National Flood
Insurance Act of 1994. The Mortgage obligates the Mortgagor thereunder to maintain all such
insurance at Mortgagor s cost and expense, and on the Mortgagor s failure to do so,
authorizes the holder of the Mortgage to maintain such insurance at Mortgagor s cost and
expense and to seek reimbursement therefor from the Mortgagor;

(d) At the time of origination of such Mortgage Loan and thereafter, all Applicable
Requirements have been complied with in all material respects, including, without
limitation, usury, truth-in-lending, real estate settlement procedures, consumer credit
protection, equal credit opportunity or disclosure laws required to be complied with by the
originator of the Mortgage Loan and applicable to the Mortgage Loan;

(e) Ownership of the Mortgaged Property is held in fee simple or a leasehold estate.
With respect to Mortgage Loans that are secured by a leasehold estate, (i) the lease is
valid, in full force and effect, and conforms to all of FNMA s requirements for leasehold
estates; (ii) all rents and other payments due under the lease have been paid; (iii) the
lessee is not in default under any provision of the lease; (iv) the term of the lease
exceeds the maturity date of the related Mortgage Loan by at least five (5) years; and (v)
the terms of the lease provide a Mortgagee with an opportunity to cure any defaults. Except
as permitted by the fourth sentence of this paragraph, the Mortgage is a valid, subsisting
and enforceable first lien on the Mortgaged Property, including all buildings on the
Mortgaged Property and all installations and mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating and
air conditioning systems affixed to such buildings, and all additions, alterations and
replacements made at any time with respect to the foregoing securing the Mortgage Note s
original principal balance. The Mortgage and the Mortgage Note do not contain any evidence
on their face of any security interest or other interest or right thereto. Such lien is
free and clear of all adverse claims, liens and encumbrances having priority over the first
lien of the Mortgage subject only to (1) the lien of current real property taxes and
assessments not yet due and payable, (2) covenants, conditions and restrictions, rights of
way, easements and other matters of the public record as of the date of recording which are
acceptable to mortgage lending institutions generally, or which are specifically referred to
in the lender s title insurance policy delivered to the originator of the Mortgage Loan and
either (A) which are referred to or otherwise considered in the appraisal made for the
originator of the Mortgage Loan, or (B) which do not in the aggregate adversely affect the
appraised value of the Mortgaged Property as set forth in such appraisal, and (3) other
matters to which like properties are commonly subject which do not in the aggregate

24 

materially interfere with the benefits of the security intended to be provided by the
Mortgage or the use, enjoyment, value or marketability of the related Mortgaged Property.
Any security agreement, chattel mortgage or equivalent document related to and delivered in
connection with the Mortgage Loan establishes and creates a valid, subsisting and
enforceable first lien and first priority security interest on the property described
therein. With respect to each Cooperative Loan, the security instruments create a valid,
enforceable and subsisting first priority security interest in the Cooperative Apartment
securing the related Mortgage Note subject to only to (a) the lien of the related
cooperative for unpaid assessments representing the Mortgagor s  pro rata  share of payments
for a blanket mortgage, if any, current and future real property taxes, insurance premiums,
maintenance fees and other assessments to which like collateral is commonly subject. and
(b) other matters to which the collateral is commonly subject which do not materially
interfere with the benefits of the security intended to be provided;  provided ,
 however , that the related proprietary lease for the Cooperative Apartment may be
subordinated or otherwise subject to the lien of a Mortgage on the cooperative building;

(f) The Mortgage Note is not subject to a third-party s security interest or other
rights or interest therein;

(g) The Mortgage Note and the related Mortgage are genuine and each is the legal, valid
and binding obligation of the maker thereof, enforceable in accordance with its terms
subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and other laws of general application affecting the rights
of creditors. All parties to the Mortgage Note and the Mortgage had the legal capacity to
enter into the Mortgage Loan and to execute and deliver the Mortgage Note and the Mortgage.
The Mortgage Note and the Mortgage have been duly and properly executed by such parties. An
obligor of the debt evidenced by the Mortgage Note is a natural person;

(h) Each Mortgage Loan is covered by an ALTA lender s title insurance policy on other
generally acceptable form of policy of insurance acceptable to FNMA or FHLMC, issued by a
title insurer acceptable to FNMA or FHLMC and qualified to do business in the jurisdiction
where the Mortgaged Property is located, insuring MLCC, its successors and assigns, as to
the first priority lien of the Mortgage in the original principal amount of the Mortgage
Loan;

(i) To the best of PHH s knowledge, there are no mechanics  or similar liens or claims
which have been filed for work, labor or material (and, to the best of PHH s knowledge, no
rights are outstanding that under law could give rise to such lien) affecting the related
Mortgaged Property which are or may be liens prior to, or equal or coordinate with, the lien
of the related Mortgage;

(j) To the best of PHH s knowledge, all improvements subject to the Mortgage, lay
wholly within the boundaries and building restriction lines of the Mortgaged Property (and
wholly within the project with respect to a condominium unit) and no improvements on
adjoining properties encroach upon the Mortgaged Property except those which are insured
against by the title insurance policy referred to above and all improvements on the property
comply with all applicable zoning and subdivision laws and ordinances and building laws and
ordinances;

25 

(k) Each Mortgage Loan was originated by PHH on behalf of MLCC. Each Mortgage Loan was
underwritten in accordance with the MLCC Underwriting Guidelines as in effect at the time of
origination. The Mortgage contains the usual and customary provision of PHH at the time of
origination for the acceleration of the payment of the unpaid principal balance of the
Mortgage Loan if the related Mortgaged Property is sold or encumbered without the prior
consent of the mortgagee thereunder;

(l) The Mortgaged Property at origination was and, to the best of PHH s knowledge,
currently is free of material damage and waste and at origination there was, and to the best
of PHH s knowledge there currently is, no proceeding pending for the total or partial
condemnation thereof;

(m) The related Mortgage contains customary and enforceable provisions such as to
render the rights and remedies of the holder thereof adequate for the realization against
the Mortgaged Property of the benefits of the security provided thereby, including, (1) in
the case of a Mortgage designated as a deed of trust, by trustee s sale or judicial
foreclosure, and (2) otherwise by judicial foreclosure. PHH has no knowledge of any
homestead or other exemption available to the Mortgagor which would interfere with the right
to sell the Mortgaged Property at a trustee s sale or the right to foreclose the Mortgage;

(n) If the Mortgage constitutes a deed of trust, a trustee, duly qualified if required
under applicable law to act as such, has been properly designated and currently so serves
and is named in the Mortgage, and no fees or expenses are or will become payable to the
trustee under the deed of trust, except in connection with a trustee s sale or attempted
sale after default by the Mortgagor;

(o) With respect to each Mortgage Loan, there is an appraisal on a FNMA-approved form
(or a narrative residential appraisal) of the related Mortgaged Property that conforms to
the applicable requirements of the Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement
Act and that was signed prior to the approval of such Mortgage Loan application by a
qualified appraiser, appointed by PHH as the originator of such Mortgage Loan, and the
appraiser has no interest, direct or indirect, in the Mortgaged Property or in any loan made
on the security thereof, and whose compensation is not affected by the approval or
disapproval of such Mortgage Loan;

(p) The Mortgaged Property is a single-family (one- to four-unit) dwelling residence
erected thereon, or an individual condominium unit in a condominium, or a Co-operative
Apartment or an individual unit in a planned unit development or in a de minimis planned
unit development as defined by FNMA. No such property is commercial property, is a mobile
home or a manufactured dwelling which is not permanently attached to the land;

(q) Except as set forth on the Loan Purchase Schedule no Mortgage loan provides for
negative amortization;

(r) No Mortgage Loan had an original term in excess of thirty (30) years;

26 

(s) PHH has in full force and effect an errors and omissions policy or policies and a
blanket bond satisfactory to FNMA and FHLMC. MLCC shall have the right to obtain a copy of
such policies or blanket bond at any time and be named as an additional insured if MLCC
deems appropriate and necessary; and

(t) If a Mortgage Loan originated pursuant to this Agreement is subsequently purchased
by PHH, PHH shall not be deemed to have made any of the representations contained in this
Section 17 with respect to such Mortgage Loan.

The representations and warranties set forth above shall survive the transfer of the Mortgage
Loans and the delivery of the Mortgage Files as to between MLCC and PHH, notwithstanding any
restrictive or qualified endorsement on any Mortgage Note or Assignment or the examination of any
Mortgage File. Upon discovery by either PHH or MLCC of a breach of any of the foregoing
representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the interests of MLCC in any
Mortgage Loan, the party discovering such breach shall give prompt written notice to the other.
PHH shall have a period of ninety (90) days from its discovery or its receipt of notice of any such
breach within which to correct or cure such breach. If any such breach cannot be corrected or
cured within such ninety-day period, PHH shall, at MLCC s option, promptly purchase any such
Mortgage Loan from MLCC for an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of such Mortgage Loan
on the date of purchase, plus any accrued and unpaid interest and applicable fees which shall have
been collected by PHH from a Customer as of the date of repurchase.

Section 18.  Mortgage Loan Representations and Warranties of MLCC . MLCC, on behalf of
itself and MLCC Affiliates, represents and warrants to PHH, with respect to each Mortgage Loan,
that:

(a) To the best of MLCC s knowledge, information and belief, all information provided
by MLCC to PHH pursuant to this Agreement is true and accurate, in all material respects.

(b) MLCC has complied in all material respects with the Mortgage Lending Laws
applicable to its obligations under this Agreement.

(c) MLCC Underwriting Guidelines comply with the Mortgage Lending Laws in all material
respects.

Section 19.  General Representations, Warranties and Covenants of PHH . PHH represents
and warrants and covenants to MLCC, as of the Effective Date and throughout the term of this
Origination Agreement, that:

(a) PHH is a corporation, duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the
State of New Jersey.

(b) To the best of PHH s knowledge, information and belief, all information provided by
PHH to MLCC pursuant to this Agreement is true and accurate, in all material respects.

(c) PHH has the corporate power and authority to enter into and perform this
Origination Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby. The Origination

27 

Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of PHH. This
Origination Agreement constitutes the legal, valid, and binding obligation of PHH
enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be subject to:
(i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or
hereafter in effect relating to creditors  rights generally; and (ii) general principles of
equity (regardless of whether such enforcement is sought in equity or at law).

(d) PHH has all federal, state, and local governmental authorizations, approvals or
licenses necessary for it to own or lease its properties and assets and to carry on its
business as it is now being conducted and as contemplated by this Agreement or as it is
proposed to be conducted, including but not limited to: (i) being duly qualified to
transact business in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required; (ii) being
duly licensed and in good standing to originate, process, underwrite and close Mortgage
Loans in each state in which such license is required; (iii) being duly licensed and in good
standing to originate, process, underwrite and close Mortgage Loans insured or guaranteed by
the Federal Housing Administration and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; and (iv)
being duly approved and in good standing as a seller/servicer of Mortgage Loans by FNMA and
FHLMC and as an issuer by the Government National Mortgage Association.

(e) The performance of this Origination Agreement by PHH shall not violate or conflict
with PHH s Articles of Incorporation or by-laws or any material contracts or other
instruments to which it is a party or by which it is bound.

(f) No action, suit or proceeding is pending, or, to PHH s knowledge, threatened,
against PHH that would prevent PHH from consummating the transactions contemplated by this
Origination Agreement.

(g) PHH shall perform its obligations under this Origination Agreement in accordance
with prudent mortgage loan origination practices, the Mortgage Lending Laws and any other
Applicable Requirements, and generally as if the Mortgage Loans were originated, processed,
underwritten and closed in the name and for the benefit of PHH rather than MLCC.

(h) PHH agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to do all acts and things that
MLCC may reasonably request for the purpose of complying with any requests related to (i)
the imposition of new or modified requirements by any regulatory agency with supervisory
authority over MLCC, (ii) the need to address criticisms or suggestions made by any
regulatory agency in the course of an examination of MLCC, and (iii) the need to modify
existing procedures to address technological changes or improvements in the provision of
services covered by this Agreement. PHH shall be reimbursed by MLCC for any documented,
material, incremental costs it incurs in complying with clause (iii) of the preceding
sentence.

Section 20.  General Representations, Warranties and Covenants of MLCC . MLCC
represents and warrants to PHH, as of the Effective Date and throughout the term of this
Origination Agreement, that:

(a) As of the Effective Date, MLCC is a corporation, duly organized and validly
existing under the laws of Delaware.

28 

(b) MLCC has the power and authority to enter into and perform this Origination
Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby. The Origination Agreement has been duly
authorized by all necessary action of MLCC. This Origination Agreement constitutes the
legal, valid, and binding obligation of MLCC enforceable in accordance with its terms,
except as such enforceability may be subject to: (i) bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to
creditors  rights generally; and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether
such enforcement is sought in equity or at law).

(c) At the time it commences its business activities in any location or for a
particular category of loan, MLCC will have all federal, state, and local governmental
authorizations, approvals or licenses necessary for it to own or lease its properties and
assets and to carry on its business as it is proposed to be conducted, including but not
limited to: (i) being duly qualified to transact business in each jurisdiction in which
such qualification is required for MLCC; and (ii) being duly licensed and in good standing
to originate Mortgage Loans in each state in which such license is required for MLCC.

(d) The performance of this Origination Agreement by MLCC shall not violate MLCC s
organizational documents or any material contracts or other instruments to which it is a
party or by which it is bound.

(e) No action, suit or proceeding is pending, or, to MLCC s knowledge, threatened,
against MLCC that would prevent MLCC from consummating the transactions contemplated by this
Origination Agreement.

(f) The performance by MLCC of its obligations under this Origination Agreement in
connection with the origination of Mortgage Loans shall not violate in any material respect
the Mortgage Lending Laws.

Section 20A.  Mutual Representations . Each Party hereby represents and warrants to
the other Party as follows:

(a)  Kickbacks . No employee, agent or representative of the other Party has
been offered, shall be offered, has received, or shall receive, directly or indirectly, from
such Party, any gratuities, merchandise, cash, services benefit, fee, commission, dividend,
gift, or other inducements or consideration of any kind in connection with this Agreement.

(b)  Government Officials . No person employed by such Party in connection with
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement is an official of the government of
any foreign country, or of any agency thereof, and no part of any moneys or consideration
paid to such Party hereunder shall accrue for the benefit of any such official.

(c)  No Relation . No individual who will receive specific compensation from
such Party as a result of the execution of this Agreement is related to any public official
or official of any issuer of municipal securities. For purposes of this Section, the term
 official of an issuer of municipal securities  means any person who is an incumbent,
candidate or successful candidate (a) for elective office of any issuer which office is
directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of a

29 

broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer for municipal securities business by such
issuer, or (b) for any elective office of a state or of any political subdivision, which
office has authority to appoint any official(s) of such issuer. The term  related  applies
when a person is related by blood or marriage.

Section 21.  Records Preservation, Retention, and Reporting . (a) PHH acknowledges
and agrees that the Mortgage Loan Documents and all other documents evidencing, underlying or
relating to the Mortgage Loans are the property of MLCC, and that until such time that MLCC sells
such Mortgage Loans to PHH or others, PHH shall, as custodian thereof, hold and keep any such
Mortgage Loan documents and other related documents in the manner described in paragraph (b) below.
As to Alternative Loans, PHH shall provide MLCC or its documents custodian with the originals of
all Mortgage Loan Documents within the possession or control of PHH within five (5) Business Days
of receipt thereof. MLCC s rights under this paragraph shall survive any subsequent sale of any
Mortgage Loan to PHH.

(b) To the extent PHH does not tender the original Mortgage Loan documents to MLCC, PHH shall
hold and be responsible for Mortgage Loan documents within a secure and controlled environment.
PHH will protect such Mortgage Loan documents from destruction or loss and from the unauthorized or
illegal divulgence of confidential information and any information relating to the Mortgage Loan or
the Customer. Upon reasonable request therefor, the Mortgage Loan documents will be readily
available at all times after the Effective Date for use and examination by MLCC or its authorized
agents (including outside accountants) or any regulatory authority for any reason whatsoever,
including, with limitation, use and examination in connection with complying with any federal,
state or local law or regulation or in the performance of internal auditing. PHH may perform its
obligations under this subsection (b) through an agent selected by PHH; the use of an agent in this
manner, however, shall not relieve PHH from responsibility for any of said obligations.

(c) PHH shall, at its own cost and expense, maintain all records and Mortgage Loan documents
in accordance with all Applicable Requirements, and such reasonable additional requirements as MLCC
may provide to PHH. PHH shall permit MLCC to have access to such records in a manner that enables
MLCC, at its expense, to comply with all record keeping requirements of the Mortgage Lending Laws
and any other law applicable to MLCC.

(d) PHH shall be solely responsible for the preparation, periodic testing, review and
implementation of disaster recovery, emergency preparedness and business resumption plans, and the
expenses associated therewith. MLCC shall retain the right to review the disaster recovery,
emergency preparedness and business resumption plans, and make reasonable recommendations
consistent with those required by its regulators, and PHH shall take commercially reasonable
efforts to implement such recommendations.

Section 22.  Term: Termination . This Origination Agreement shall automatically
expire and terminate upon the earlier of (i) December 31, 2010 (the   Initial Termination
Date  ) and (ii) the date upon which the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof, between the parties hereto, is terminated in accordance with the terms thereof. So long as
neither a PHH Performance Failure nor an MLCC Performance Failure shall have occurred, this
Agreement shall be automatically extended, subject to the following sentence, without any action by
the parties hereto for one (1) additional five (5) year term from and after the Initial Termination
Date (the   Extension Term  ).      * * *   

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

30 

For the avoidance of doubt, if either a PHH Performance Failure or an MLCC Performance
Failure shall have occurred, there shall be no extension of this Agreement, unless, at least six
months prior to the Initial Termination Date, either MLCC or PHH shall have sent a written notice
to the other party stating that notwithstanding the PHH Performance Failure or the MLCC Performance
Failure, as the case may be, such party is willing to extend this Agreement for the Extension Term.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that (A) a Party shall materially breach any of its
representations, warranties or covenants or shall materially default in the performance of any of
its duties or obligations hereunder, and such breach or default shall not be substantially cured
within sixty (60) days after written notice specifying the breach or default has been given by the
non-breaching or non-defaulting Party, such non-breaching or non-defaulting Party may, by giving
written notice thereof to the breaching or defaulting Party, terminate this Agreement for cause as
of a future date specified in such notice of termination; (B) an insolvency, bankruptcy or similar
proceeding shall have been commenced, or a decree or order of an appropriate court, agency or
supervisory authority for the appointment of a conservator, receiver or liquidator shall have been
entered against the other Party (the   Bankrupt Party  ), then the other Party may, by giving
written notice thereof to the Bankrupt Party, terminate this Agreement for cause as of a future
date specified in such notice of termination; (C) PHH s good standing with HUD or both Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac shall have been revoked for cause (it being understood that PHH may choose to cease
doing business with one but not both of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac) and PHH fails to have such good
standing reinstated within thirty (30) days, then MLCC may, by giving notice thereof to PHH,
terminate this Agreement for cause as of a future date specified in such notice of termination; or
(D) a PHH Competitor Change of Control shall have occurred, then at any time after MLCC shall have
received notice of such PHH Competitor Change of Control, MLCC may, by giving written notice
thereof to PHH, terminate this Agreement as of a future date specified in such notice of
termination; or (E) a PHH Change of Control (other than a PHH Competitor Change of Control) shall
have occurred, then at any time within 30 days after the two year anniversary of such PHH Change of
Control, MLCC may, by giving written notice thereof to PHH, terminate this Agreement as of a future
date specified in such notice of termination; or (F) PHH shall have materially breached any of its
representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Trademark Use Agreement and such breach
shall not have been cured within the time frame prescribed therein, then MLCC may, by giving
written notice thereof to PHH, terminate this Agreement for cause as of a future date specified in
such notice of termination. The representations, warranties and covenants of the Parties made
herein and the respective obligations of each Party hereunder to indemnify and hold harmless the
other Party shall survive the termination of the Origination Agreement. Termination of the
Origination Agreement in accordance with these provisions shall have no effect on Mortgage Loan
applications in process at the time of such termination, which applications shall be processed to
closing or denial.

Section 22A.  Termination Assistance . (a) Termination Assistance Services. Upon
expiration or termination of all or part of the MLCC Services for any reason, PHH shall for a
period of one (1) year (the   Termination Assistance Period  ), upon MLCC s request and at
MLCC s expense, continue to provide the MLCC Services that were provided prior thereto
(  Termination Assistance Services  ). In providing Termination Assistance Services, PHH
shall provide such reasonable cooperation and technical assistance to MLCC, or to a third-party
service

31 

provider designated by MLCC, as required to facilitate the transfer of the affected MLCC Services
to MLCC or such third-party service provider. The rights of MLCC under this Section shall be
without prejudice to the Parties  rights to pursue legal remedies for breach of this Agreement,
either for breaches prior to termination or during the period this Agreement is continued in force
post-termination. Termination Assistance Services shall be provided for the same fees as prior to
termination, and PHH shall use commercially reasonable efforts to perform the MLCC Services at the
same service levels as prior to termination. MLCC hereby agrees to continue to provide the
services or meet its obligations contemplated to be provided by it under the Agreement during the
Termination Assistance Period in order to assist PHH in complying with this Section 22A(a).

(b)  Development of Transition Plan . If and to the extent requested by MLCC, whether
prior to, upon, or following any termination of this Agreement, PHH shall reasonably assist MLCC in
developing a plan which shall specify the tasks to be performed by the Parties in connection with
the Termination Assistance Services and the schedule for the performance of such tasks. The
transition plan shall include descriptions of the MLCC Services, service levels, fees,
documentation and access requirements that will promote an orderly transition of the MLCC Services.

(c)  Post-Termination Assistance . For a period of six (6) months following the
Termination Assistance Period, PHH shall: (i) answer all reasonable and pertinent verbal or
written questions from MLCC regarding the MLCC Services on an  as needed  basis; and (ii) deliver
to MLCC any remaining MLCC-owned reports and documentation still in PHH s possession.

Section 23.  Cooperation . The Parties acknowledge that the success of their efforts
under this Origination Agreement depends on the cooperation of each of them. Accordingly, each of
the Parties shall use its best efforts and confer in good faith in an attempt to agree upon any
matter hereunder which requires such agreement, to implement the Mortgage Loan origination program
contemplated by this Agreement, and to any and all improvements, modifications or enhancements of
the internal systems of either Party hereto, all as soon as possible.

Section 24.  No Partnership . This Origination Agreement is intended to be, and shall
be construed to be, the formation of an independent contractor relationship and not a partnership
or joint venture between the Parties.

Section 25.  Notices . Any notice under this Origination Agreement shall be in
writing. Any notice to be given or document to be delivered to a Party pursuant to this
Origination Agreement shall be effective when either received in person or by certified mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the Party at the following address, or as the Party may subsequently
designate:

32 

MLCC :

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, FL 32246-6484 
Attention: President 
Facsimile:

with a copy to:

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, FL 32246-6484 
Attention: General Counsel 
Facsimile: (904) 218-8848

PHH :

Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 
Attention: Robert C. Andwood 
                Mail Stop CS 
Facsimile: 856-917-6702

with a copy to:

General Counsel s Office 
Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 
Attention: William F. Brown 
                 Mail Stop LGL 
Facsimile: 856-917-9422

Any notice sent by registered, certified or overnight mail or facsimile shall be deemed
received on the actual date of delivery of the notice to the address of the Party as evidenced by
the registered or certified mail return or facsimile received receipt or indication.

Section 26.  Modification of Origination Agreement . Only an instrument in writing
signed by the Parties may modify this Origination Agreement or any Exhibits hereto.

Section 27.  Miscellaneous . (a)  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be
governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

(b)  Lawful Conduct; Severability; Release . The Parties hereto shall not perform, or
be expected to perform, any act hereunder that is, or reasonably believed to be, in violation of
any applicable state or federal rule or regulation. If any provision of this Agreement is now or
later in violation of any local, state or federal law, then such provision shall be considered null
and void for purposes of this Agreement with all other provisions remaining in full force and
effect. Each party expressly releases the other from any liability in the event either of said
Parties

33 

cannot fulfill any obligation hereunder due to any prohibition under local, state or federal laws
pertaining to such obligation.

Section 28.  Expenses . Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, all costs,
fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of any and all obligations pursuant
to this Agreement shall be paid by the party incurring such costs, fees and expenses.

Section 29.  Confidentiality and No Personal Solicitation . (a) Each party understands
that certain information which it has been furnished and will be furnished in connection with this
Agreement, including, but not limited to information concerning business procedures or prices,
policies or plans of the other party or any of its Affiliates, is confidential and proprietary, and
each party agrees that it will maintain the confidentiality of such information and will not
disclose it to others or use it except in connection with the proposed transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, without the prior written consent of the party furnishing such information.
Information which is generally known in the industry concerning a party or among such party s
creditors generally or which has been disclosed to the other party by third parties who have a
right to do so shall not be deemed confidential or proprietary information for these purposes. If
PHH, any of its Affiliates or any officer, director, employee or agent of any of the foregoing is
at any time requested or required to disclose any information supplied to it by or on behalf of
MLCC in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, PHH agrees to provide MLCC with
prompt notice of such request(s) so that MLCC may seek an appropriate protective order and/or waive
PHH s compliance with the terms of this Section. If MLCC, any of its Affiliates or any officer,
director, employee or agent of any of the foregoing is at any time requested or required to
disclose any information supplied to it by or on behalf of MLCC in connection with the transactions
contemplated hereby, MLCC agrees to provide PHH with prompt notice of such request(s) so that PHH
may seek an appropriate protective order and/or waive MLCC s compliance with the terms of this
Section. Notwithstanding the terms of this Section, if, in the absence of a protective order or
the receipt of a waiver hereunder, PHH or MLCC is nonetheless, in the opinion of its counsel,
compelled to disclose information concerning the other party to any tribunal or else stand liable
for contempt or suffer other censure or penalty, PHH or MLCC may disclose such information to such
tribunal without liability hereunder. Upon termination of this Agreement, each party agrees to
promptly return to the other all confidential materials, and all copies thereof, which have been
furnished to it in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.

(b)  Data, Privacy and Security . (1) The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that:
(A) MLCC is the exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in and to the MLCC Data; (B) MLCC
Data is and shall remain confidential and proprietary information of MLCC; (C) PHH is the exclusive
owner of all right, title and interest in and to the PHH Data; and (D) PHH Data is and shall remain
confidential and proprietary information of PHH, subject to the Privacy Requirements. With respect
to any MLCC Data provided by MLCC to PHH hereunder, except to the extent expressly permitted
hereunder, subject to this Section 29, or by prior written permission of MLCC, PHH shall not
prepare any derivative work of the MLCC Data or any portion thereof, or sublicense, transfer,
assign, rent, lease or otherwise convey the MLCC Data or any portion thereof, or any right with
respect thereto, to any third party. All right, title and interest in all MLCC Data made by or on
behalf of PHH, together with all intellectual property rights therein, shall be owned exclusively
by MLCC. PHH hereby assigns to MLCC all right, title, and interest in such MLCC Data and the
intellectual property rights therein. PHH shall, at request of MLCC,

34 

perform any acts that MLCC may reasonably deem necessary or desirable to evidence or confirm MLCC s
ownership interest in such MLCC Data and the intellectual property rights therein, including but
not limited to making further written assignments in a form determined by MLCC.

(2) In connection with the performance of the Origination Services hereunder, PHH shall comply
with the Privacy Requirements, subject to (i) the mandatory compliance date of such Privacy
Requirements and (ii) the applicability of such Privacy Requirements to PHH as the result of PHH s
provision of the Origination Services under this Agreement. The foregoing obligation to comply
with the Privacy Requirements may include the following: (A) PHH shall not disclose any Borrower
Information to any person or entity, other than to the extent necessary to carry out PHH s express
obligations under the Agreement, and for no other purpose. PHH shall ensure that each person or
entity to whom or to which PHH intends to disclose Borrower Information shall, prior to any such
disclosure of information, agree to: (i) keep confidential any such Borrower Information and (ii)
use or disclose such Borrower Information only to the extent necessary to carry out PHH s express
obligations under this Agreement; (B) PHH shall not use Borrower Information for any purpose,
including but not limited to the marketing of products or services to, or the solicitation of
business from the Borrowers. PHH may use the Borrower Information to the extent necessary to carry
out PHH s express obligations under the Agreement. PHH may also use the Borrower Information as
expressly permitted by MLCC in writing, to the extent that such express permission is in accordance
with the Privacy Requirements; (C) PHH shall assess, manage, and control risks relating to the
security and confidentiality of Borrower Information, shall implement the standards relating to
such risks in the manner set forth in the FFIEC Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for
Safeguarding Borrower Information set forth in 12 CFR Parts 30, 208, et al, and shall maintain at
all times an Information Security Program; (D) without limiting the scope of the above, PHH shall
use at least the same physical and other security measures to protect all Borrower Information in
PHH s possession or control, as PHH uses for its own confidential and proprietary information; (E)
If MLCC provides an Account Number to PHH to enable the parties to carry out the purposes of this
Agreement, PHH shall use such Account Number only for such specific purpose and for no other
purpose. To the extent that the obligations under (A) through (E), inclusive, in the immediately
preceding sentence are not required by the Privacy Requirements, PHH shall perform same upon MLCC s
request at MLCC s sole cost and expense. Notwithstanding the foregoing, MLCC acknowledges that PHH
shall acquire the  customer  relationship with the Borrower and be entitled to use the Borrower
Information when it acquires for its own account the servicing rights pertaining to any Mortgage
Loan as to which PHH provides origination services hereunder; provided, however, that PHH shall
include in its Privacy Statement that it furnishes to Borrowers a disclosure that it intends to
continue to disclose Borrower Information to MLCC and its Affiliates.

(b) Without MLCC s prior written consent, which may be withheld by MLCC in its sole
discretion, neither PHH nor any Affiliate shall solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be
solicited, for subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate financing
arranged under the Equity Access program and settlement services connected with the Mortgage Loan)
or any product or service whatsoever, including, without limitation, any investment or financial
services or products, insurance products or services and brokerage account services. PHH (but not
any of its Affiliates) may solicit Mortgagors for prepayment of the related Mortgage Loans, but
only if (i) PHH has obtained MLCC s prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld,
(ii) such solicitation is made in compliance with the Applicable Requirements and (iii) upon
obtaining any positive responses to

35 

such solicitation, PHH processes and closes the related Mortgage Loans pursuant to this Origination
Agreement. Neither MLCC nor any of its Affiliates shall be prohibited from soliciting any
Mortgagor or causing any Mortgagor to be solicited for any product or service now offered (or
hereafter offered) by MLCC or any Affiliate of MLCC other than for prepayment of any Mortgage Loan.
PHH shall not prepare or disseminate, for compensation or otherwise, any mailing lists relating to
the Mortgagors, the Mortgage Loans, the Servicing Rights (as such term is defined in the applicable
Servicing Agreement): or otherwise, including any lists of Mortgagors, without MLCC s prior
written consent, which may be withheld by MLCC in its sole discretion. The parties hereto
nevertheless agree that (i) either PHH, MLCC or their respective Affiliates may from time to time
undertake promotions that are directed to either their own general customer base or to the general
public at large and that do not target Mortgagors directly, including, without limitation,
newspaper, radio and television advertisements and mass mailing or telephone solicitations and that
(ii) offers by PHH, MLCC or their respective Affiliates to refinance Mortgage Loans in response to,
or as a result of, contact initiated by the related Mortgagors or their representatives shall not
constitute solicitation.

Section 30.  Further Assurances . The Parties agree that each will, from time to time,
execute, acknowledge, and deliver, or cause to be executed, acknowledged, and delivered, such
amendments and supplements hereto and such further instruments as may be reasonably required or
appropriate to further express the intention of the Parties, or to facilitate the performance of
this Origination Agreement.

Section 31.  Contingency Plan . PHH represents and warrants that it has in place a
contingency plan that will enable it to (i) perform its loan closing obligations with one (1)
Business Day, and (ii) perform all its other obligations under this Agreement and the Loan Purchase
and Sale Agreement in all material respects, at another location within    * * *   , in the event its
primary location is rendered inoperative as a result of a natural or other disaster or emergency,
and once PHH relocates to its backup site, it shall make arrangements to connect MLCC to PHH s
backup EDP and provide continued service as stated in this Agreement, provided that PHH has granted
MLCC access to its primary EDP. PHH covenants and agrees to (i) test such contingency plan at
least once annually and provide the results of such test to MLCC, and (ii) provide MLCC with copies
of its operating procedures in the event that such contingency plan is put into effect. If MLCC
determines in its reasonable discretion, that such contingency plan is inadequate, MLCC shall have
the right to make reasonable recommendations consistent with those required by its regulators, and
PHH shall take commercially reasonable efforts to implement such recommendations.

Section 32.  Indemnification . Except as otherwise provided by the terms of this
Agreement, each Party hereto (each, an   Indemnitor  ) agrees to indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the other Party and the respective officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys,
members and shareholders of each of the foregoing (collectively called the   Indemnitees  )
from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions,
judgments, suits, claims, costs, expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever
(including without limitation reasonable attorneys  fees and disbursements in connection with any
investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding) (  Losses  ) imposed on, incurred by or
asserted against such Indemnitees, whether brought under common law or in equity, or in contract,
tort or otherwise, caused by, arising from or connected with (i) any misrepresentation or the
breach in any material respect by the Indemnitor of any term, condition, representation,

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

36 

obligation or warranty of the Indemnitor set forth in this Agreement or in any schedule,
exhibit, or certificate furnished by the Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Agreement; or (ii) the
negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnitor.

Notwithstanding the prior paragraph, before either Party shall be entitled to indemnification
as provided in this Section the Party claiming indemnification shall give notice to the other Party
(the   Indemnitor  ) of the claimed breach, negligence or willful misconduct and the
Indemnitor shall have sixty (60) days to cure such breach, negligence or willful misconduct, which
period of time shall be allowed before any attempt to enforce rights to indemnification hereunder.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, such 60-day cure period shall
be in lieu of and not in addition to any other cure period provided under any other provision in
this Agreement. Cure of the breach, negligence or willful misconduct within the 60-day cure period
shall not relieve the Indemnitor from its obligations to indemnify the Indemnitees for the Losses
suffered by the Indemnitees on account of the breach, negligence or willful misconduct of the
Indemnitor.

Section 33.  MLBUSA Loans . With respect to Equity Access Loans only, PHH hereby
acknowledges and agrees, for the benefit of MLCC, that, with respect to the Origination Services to
be performed hereunder which relate to such Mortgage Loans closed in the states of Washington, Ohio
and Arkansas, PHH shall use its best efforts to negotiate and enter into, on commercially
reasonable terms, either (i) a separate origination agreement between PHH and MLBUSA or (ii) an
assignment and assumption agreement executed and delivered by PHH, in form and substance reasonably
acceptable to MLCC, with respect to the existing MLCC/MLBUSA loan processing agreement. MLCC
agrees to assist and cooperate with PHH in entering into either of such agreements with MLBUSA.

Section 34.  Section Headings . The headings of the various sections of this
Origination Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed
to be a part of this Origination Agreement.

Section 35.  No Assignment . The Parties shall not assign all or any part of the
rights or obligations, arising hereunder or delegate any duty other than as permitted by this
Agreement, without first obtaining the written consent of the other Party.

Section 36.  Counterparts . This Origination Agreement may be executed in any number
of counterparts. Each counterpart so executed shall be deemed an original, but all such
counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

Section 37.  No Waivers; Remedies Cumulative . The waiver of any breach of this
Origination Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. All
remedies afforded by this Origination Agreement for a breach hereof shall be cumulative; that is,
in addition to all other remedies provided for herein or by law or in equity

Section 38.  Service Standards . (a) With respect to all closed Mortgage Loans, PHH
shall conduct a survey of the related Customer contemporaneously with the closing (the
  Customer Survey  ) and a survey of the Merrill Lynch Financial Consultant that referred
such Customer (the   FC Survey   together with the Customer Survey, the   Surveys  )
for the purpose of assessing overall satisfaction levels relating to PHH s performance as loan
originator. PHH shall administer such Surveys and shall provide the results of the Surveys to MLCC
on a monthly

37 

basis. PHH shall have the right to select the content of such Surveys and amend such Surveys from
time to time,  provided  that (i) MLCC may review, comment upon and periodically suggest
changes to each Survey, which changes PHH shall incorporate into a redesign of the Surveys unless
such changes, in PHH s reasonable discretion, are inconsistent with the purpose described in the
second preceding sentence, (ii) the FC Survey shall always contain the question  would you
recommend an MLCC Mortgage Loan to another client?  (the   Key FC Question  ), and (iii) the
Customer Survey shall always contain the question  Would you recommend an MLCC Mortgage Loan to a
friend/another person?  (the   Key Customer Question  ). MLCC shall have the right to review
and audit all Survey responses once per calendar year. Further, MLCC shall have the right, but not
the obligation, to disseminate such surveys once annually at its option.

(b) PHH shall maintain a    * * *    rate of customer satisfaction on Customer Surveys received
during    * * *    as measured by    * * *    (the failure of either or both Survey(s) to obtain such
satisfaction level in any given month, a   Survey Failure  ). PHH hereby agrees that failure
to maintain    * * *    satisfaction level shall result in damage amounts to be payable to MLCC upon
demand in immediately available funds, as follows:

(i) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure, PHH shall pay MLCC $   * * *   ;

(ii) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * * *   , PHH shall pay MLCC $   * * *   ;

(iii) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * * *   , PHH shall pay MLCC $   * * *   ;

(iv) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * * *   , PHH shall pay MLCC $   * * *   ;

(v) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * * *   , PHH shall pay MLCC $   * * *   ;

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

38 

(vi) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * * *   , PHH shall pay MLCC $   * * *   
and MLCC shall have the right to terminate the exclusivity provisions contained in Section
3;

(vii) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * * *   , PHH shall pay MLCC $   * * *   ,
PHH shall not have demonstrated the ability to meet such satisfaction levels, MLCC shall
have the right, but not the obligation, to terminate this Agreement and the Trademark Use
Agreement;

(viii) upon the occurrence of a Survey Failure for    * * *   , PHH shall pay MLCC $   * *
*   .

(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) above, during any calendar month during which PHH
experiences a volume of loan refinance activity which exceeds    * * *    for such month on the
Refinance Application Index promulgated by the Mortgage Bankers Association, the satisfaction
levels required for all purposes under paragraph (b) with respect to Surveys conducted for such
month shall be    * * *    for the Customers Surveys and    * * *    for the FC Surveys.

(d) With respect to the $   * * *    and shall provide MLCC with documentation detailing such
activities.

(e) If at any time from the Effective Date until the Initial Termination Date, PHH shall fail
to maintain a    * * *    satisfaction rate for either of the Customer Surveys or the FC Surveys for    *
* *   , MLCC shall have the right, but not the obligation, to terminate this Agreement; provided,
that    * * *   , PHH shall only be required to achieve a    * * *    satisfaction rate for both the FC
Surveys and the Customer Surveys.

(f) Notwithstanding any other provisions contained in this Agreement, the remedies set forth
in this Section 38 for the failure to meet the satisfaction levels specified in this Section 38
shall be MLCC s exclusive remedies.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

39 

Section 39.  Binding Effect . This Origination Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and be binding upon the Parties hereto and, except as otherwise limited herein, their respective
successors and permitted assigns.

Section 40.  Benefit of Parties Only . This Origination Agreement is made for the sole
benefit of the Parties hereto and of their respective successors and permitted assigns. Nothing
herein shall create, or be deemed to create, a relationship between the Parties hereto, or either
of them and any third person in the nature of a third-party beneficiary, equitable lien or
fiduciary relationship.

Section 41.  Survival . The provisions contained in Sections 6(g), 6(h) 14, 17, 21(a)
and 22 of this Agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

Section 42.  MLPF S . MLCC agrees to enter into an agreement with Merrill Lynch,
Pierre, Fenner   Smith Incorporated (  MLPF S  ) for it to be the exclusive provider of
Mortgage Loans for MLPF S U.S. domestic brokerage clients through the FC Channel. A default under
such agreement that has not been cured after the expiration of any applicable cure period or any
early termination of such agreement shall, at the option of PHH, constitute an event of default
hereunder.

40 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned Parties has caused this Agreement to be duly executed
and delivered by one of its duly authorized officers, all as of the Effective Date.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services 

By: 
       
     /s/ Terence Edwards 

Name: 

Title: 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By: 
       
     /s/ Kevin O Hanlon 

Name: 

Title: 

Exhibit 10.67 

EXECUTION COPY

CALIFORNIA ADDENDUM TO 
ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

CALIFORNIA ADDENDUM TO ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT (this   California Addendum  )
is entered into effective as of this 19 th  day of October, 2001 by and between MERRILL
LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business at 4802 Deer
Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246-6484 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE
CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation with its principal place of
business at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 (  PHH  ) (each, individually,
a   Party ,  collectively, the   Parties  ).

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Parties entered into that certain Origination Assistance Agreement ( Origination
Agreement ) effective as of the Effective Date;

WHEREAS, the Origination Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which PHH shall
provide certain Mortgage Loan Origination Services; and

WHEREAS, the Parties wish to amend, modify and supplement the Origination Agreement with
respect to Mortgage Loans that are subject to the Origination Agreement and as to which the
mortgaged property is located in the State of California (  California Mortgage Loans  ).

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS; EFFECT 

SECTION 1.01    Definitions  . Except as otherwise provided in this California Addendum,
all capitalized terms used in this California Addendum shall have the same meanings as are ascribed
to such terms in the Origination Agreement.

SECTION 1.02    Effect of California Addendum  . (a) This California Addendum amends,
modifies, and supplements the Origination Agreement with respect to the California Mortgage Loans
that are subject to the Origination Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in this California
Addendum, the Origination Agreement remains in full force and effect. Nothing in this California
Addendum shall amend, modify or supplement the Origination Agreement insofar as it relates to
Mortgage Loans that are not California Mortgage Loans.

(b) Section 2.02 of this California Addendum is effective as of the day and year first set
forth above. All of the other sections of this California Addendum are effective as of the
Effective Date.

ARTICLE II 

AMENDMENTS 

SECTION 2.01    Written Agency Contract  . A new Section 1B is added to the Origination
Agreement, to read as follows:

Section 1B.   Written Agency Contract  . With respect to California Mortgage
Loans that are subject to this Origination Agreement, this Origination Agreement
constitutes a written agency contract under which PHH shall engage in the business
of soliciting Customers, processing Mortgage Loan applications and applying the MLCC
Underwriting Guidelines in underwriting Mortgage Loan applications for and on behalf
of MLCC, all as more fully set forth in and subject to the terms and conditions of
this Origination Agreement. 

SECTION 2.02    Mortgage Loan Application Processing  . The first sentence of Section 6(c)
of the Origination Agreement is revised to read in its entirety as follows:

For each Customer who applies for a Mortgage Loan through the Telemarketing
Origination Channel, PHH shall arrange for the receipt by the Customer, as promptly
as practicable under the circumstances, and in any event in accordance with
applicable law, of (i) the Mortgage Loan application for the Customer to review and
sign accompanied by a request for appropriate Customer documents, (ii) all Mortgage
Loan disclosures completed, as appropriate, in the name of MLCC and (iii) a properly
completed Disclosure of Agency Relationship form for each California Mortgage Loan. 

SECTION 2.03    Customer Fees and Charges  . A new subsection (f) is added to Section 13
of the Origination Agreement, to read as follows:

(f) Anything in this Section 13 to the contrary notwithstanding, with respect to
California Mortgage Loans, all Customer Fees and Charges, non-third party fees, and
other fees directly or indirectly charged to the Customer shall be demanded by, or
collected on behalf of, MLCC. The Parties may, for their convenience, arrange for
PHH to net amounts so charged and collected against amounts owing to PHH under the
provisions of this Origination Agreement. 

SECTION 2.04    Legal and Regulatory Compliance  . Section 15(a)(x) of the Origination
Agreement is revised to read in its entirety as follows:

2 

(x) Usury limitations and, in the case of California Mortgage Loans, the California
Residential Mortgage Lending Act and the rules, regulations, forms and orders of the
California Commissioner of Corporations. 

SECTION 2.05    No Partnership  . Section 24 of the Origination Agreement is revised to
read in its entirety as follows:

Section 24.   No Partnership  . With respect to California Mortgage Loans
that are subject to this Origination Agreement, this Origination Agreement is
intended to be, and shall be construed to be, the formation of a principal and agent
relationship. With respect to Mortgage Loans that are not California Mortgage
Loans, this Origination Agreement is intended to be and shall be construed to be,
the formation of an independent contractor relationship. In any event, this
Origination Agreement is not intended to be, and shall not be construed to be, a
partnership or joint venture between the Parties. 

ARTICLE III 

COUNTERPARTS 

SECTION 3.01    Counterparts  . This California Addendum may be executed in any number of
counterparts. Each counterpart so executed shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts
shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

3 

Exhibit 10.67 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned Parties has caused this California Addendum to be
duly executed and delivered by one of its duly authorized officers effective as of the day and year
first set forth above.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services 

By: 
       
       /s/ Joseph Bennett 

Name:

Joseph Bennett 

Title:

SVP 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By: 
       
       /s/ Kevin O Hanlon 

Name:

Kevin O Hanlon 

Title:

President and Chairman 

EXECUTION COPY 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 

TO ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

and 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

November 30, 2001 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

i 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  (continued)

ii 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. I TO ORIGINATION 
ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 TO ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 30, 2001
and effective as of September 10, 2001 (the   Effective Date  ) (this   Addendum  ),
between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer
Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION
d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall
Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 (  Cendant  ).

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to that certain Origination Assistance Agreement, dated
as of December 15, 2000 (the   Origination Agreement  

WHEREAS, Cendant is willing to, and MLCC desires Cendant to, provide MLCC certain support
services for MLCC s Wholesale Lending Program; and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant desire to supplement the Origination Agreement with the
terms and provisions set forth in this Addendum in order to reflect their agreement with respect to
the services to be provided by Cendant for MLCC s Wholesale Lending Program;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants
hereinafter set forth, MLCC and Cendant hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS; 
INCORPORATION INTO AGREEMENTS 

SECTION 1.01     Definitions  . Unless otherwise defined herein, all initially
capitalized terms used in this Addendum shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the
Origination Agreement, to which this Addendum shall be attached.

(a)  Certain Defined Terms . As used in this Addendum, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:

Applicable Requirements   has the meaning set forth in the Origination Agreement;
provided, however, that for purposes of this Addendum, such term shall also include the following
language after clause (A)(vii):   and (viii) with respect to the Correspondent Lending Program,
the terms of the Correspondent Lending Guide; and (ix) with respect to the Mortgage Broker Program,
the terms of the Mortgage Broker Guide. 

ARM   means an adjustable rate mortgage loan.

Borrower   means the individual or individuals obligated to repay a mortgage loan.

Broker Agreement   means a Broker Agreement, a form of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit A, entered into by MLCC and a Mortgage Broker, which form of agreement may be amended from
time by mutual agreement of MLCC and Cendant without formal amendment hereto.

Cendant Loans   shall mean any of the types of Mortgage Loans listed on Schedule 1
hereto, as the same may be amended from time to time by written agreement between MLCC and Cendant,
and offered to Borrowers under either the Correspondent Lending Program or the Mortgage Broker
Program. Cendant Loans shall also include any of the foregoing Mortgage Loans that are supported
by a Mortgage 100 sm  Loan or a Parent Power Mortgage Loan.

Commitment   means a Master Commitment agreement, a form of which is attached hereto
as Exhibit B (which form of agreement may be amended from time by mutual agreement of MLCC and
Cendant without formal amendment hereto), entered into by MLCC and a Correspondent Lender, which
agreement sets forth the extent and duration of MLCC s financial commitment to purchase certain
Loans from the applicable Correspondent Lender.

Correspondent Lender   means a Person in the business of originating, making and
selling first lien residential mortgage loans secured by a mortgage on one-to-four family
dwellings.

Correspondent Lending Guide   means the  Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation Seller
Guide , a copy of which has been provided to Cendant, which sets forth the terms and conditions
applicable to the sale of Loans pursuant to the Correspondent Lending Program, as the same may be
amended from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Addendum.

Correspondent Lending Program   means MLCC s program of purchasing Loans from
Correspondent Lenders pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Correspondent Lending Guide, the
applicable Commitment and the applicable Master Purchase Agreement. Such program also includes the
underwriting of certain Loans sold by a Correspondent Lender to MLCC, which Loans are underwritten
and delivered to MLCC in accordance with the    Correspondent Lending Guide, the applicable
Commitment and the applicable Master Purchase Agreement.

Delegated Loans   mean those Loans originated and closed pursuant to and in accordance
with the  Delegated Underwriting Program  (as such term is defined in the Correspondent Lending
Guide).

Equity Access    Loans   shall mean home equity lines of credit offered to
Borrowers under the Wholesale Lending Program.

Loans   means Portfolio Loans and Cendant Loans.

Master Purchase Agreement   means a Master Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, a form of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit C (which form of agreement may be

  2 

amended from time by mutual agreement of MLCC and Cendant without formal amendment hereto), entered
into by MLCC and a Correspondent Lender, which agreement sets forth the terms and conditions
pursuant to which a Correspondent Lender agrees to sell, and MLCC agrees to buy, Loans having such
characteristics and in such aggregate principal amounts as are agreed to between MLCC and the
applicable Correspondent Lender in accordance with the eligibility guidelines in the Correspondent
Lending Guide and the applicable Commitment.

Mortgage Broker   means a Person engaged in the business of brokering mortgage loans
and approved by MLCC, as of the date hereof or in accordance with the terms of this Addendum, to
participate in this Mortgage Broker Program.

Mortgage Broker Guide   means the  Mortgage Broker Manual , a copy of which has been
provided to Cendant, which sets forth the terms and conditions applicable to Loans and Mortgage
Brokers under the Mortgage Broker Program, as the same may be amended from time to time in
accordance with the terms of this Addendum.

Mortgage Broker Program   means MLCC s program of underwriting Loans placed with MLCC
by Mortgage Brokers.

Mortgage Loans   means an individual mortgage loan and all rights with respect
thereto, evidenced by a mortgage and mortgage note.

Non-Table Funded Loans   means any Loan closed and funded by a Correspondent Lender
under the Correspondent Lending Program.

Portfolio Loans   shall mean any of the types of Mortgage Loans listed on Schedule 2
hereto, as the same may be amended from time to time by written agreement between MLCC and Cendant,
and offered to Borrowers under either the Correspondent Lending Program or the Mortgage Broker
Program. Portfolio Loans shall also include any of the foregoing Mortgage Loans that are supported
by a Mortgage 100sm Loan or a Parent Power Mortgage Loan.

Prior Approval Loans   means any Loan for which a Correspondent Lender, in accordance
with the Correspondent Lending Guide, must receive underwriting approval from Cendant, acting on
behalf of M LCC, prior to such Loan being closed by the Correspondent Lender.

Table Funded Loans   means any Loan closed and funded by Cendant on MLCC s behalf and
in MLCC s name under the Mortgage Broker Program.

Underwriting Guidelines   means (i) with respect to Portfolio Loans and Equity Access   
Loans, the published underwriting guidelines of MLCC and (ii) with respect to Cendant Loans, the
published underwriting guidelines of Cendant.

Wholesale Lender   means a Correspondent Lender or a Mortgage Broker.

Wholesale Lending Program   means the Correspondent Lending Program and the Mortgage
Broker Program.

3 

(b)  Certain Cendant Terms . The parties hereto acknowledge that Cendant, in the day-to-day
conduct of its own business, uses terms other than the defined terms used in this Addendum. For
ease of Cendant s reference  only , and not in any manner modifying or changing the
definitions set forth in Section 1.01(a) above, or modifying or changing the use of such
definitions in this Addendum, Cendant uses the following terminology in the day-to-day conduct of
its business:

Tier III Loan   is used by Cendant to refer to a Table Funded Loan.

Tier VI Loan   is used by Cendant to refer to a Prior Approval Loan.

Tier VII Loan   is used by Cendant to refer to a Delegated Loan.

Tier VI Loan   and   Tier VII Loan   are each used by Cendant to refer to a
Non-Table Funded Loan.

SECTION 1.02     Incorporation of Addendum.   Unless specifically addressed below,
all terms and conditions, representations and warranties, and rights, obligations and covenants of
Cendant and MLCC set forth in the Origination Agreement shall apply or shall be deemed to be given
or made, as the case may be, to Loans originated, and/or purchased pursuant to the terms of this
Addendum, and to the subject matter of the Addendum. Further, except as indicated below, all
references in the Origination Agreement to  Origination Services  shall be deemed to include
references to the Correspondent Lending Services and the Mortgage Broker Services, and all
references in the Origination Agreement to a  Mortgage Loan  shall be deemed to include a reference
to the Loans originated, and/or purchased pursuant to the terms of this Addendum.

SECTION 1.03     Ratification   .  The Origination Agreement is hereby supplemented
by the terms and conditions of this Addendum. Except as supplemented by this Addendum, the
Origination Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified
and confirmed.

ARTICLE II 

THE CORRESPONDENT LENDING PROGRAM 

SECTION 2.01     Correspondent Lending Services  . Cendant shall perform for and
on behalf of MLCC the following services and provide the related facilities associated with MLCC s
Correspondent Lending Program (collectively, the   Correspondent Lending Services  ):

(a)  General Duties . Cendant shall perform, in accordance with all Applicable
Requirements, all the duties and obligations of MLCC under any and all Commitments and Master
Purchase Agreements in effect from time to time. The performance of such duties and obligations
(as more specifically set forth below) shall include, but not be limited to, reviewing and
approving/not approving Loan applications, responding to pre-application inquiries, providing daily
interest rate sheets, preparing certain closing documents (or making such documents available),
maintaining certain files, providing funds for the purchase of Loans, ensuring compliance with all
Applicable Requirements, and providing any and all legal guidance

4 

and support in connection therewith. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Cendant shall have no
obligations to purchase any Loans pursuant to the Correspondent Lending Program other than the
obligations set forth in this Addendum or any other agreement entered into by Cendant and MLCC
contemporaneously herewith.

(b)  Loan Pricing . Prior to   * * *  , Cendant shall provide to each Correspondent
Lender by facsimile or otherwise in writing the  Correspondent Lending Program Daily Pricing
Matrix  for Loans. Mortgage Loan Pricing for Cendant Loans shall be determined by Cendant in its
sole discretion. Mortgage Loan Pricing for Portfolio Loans shall be determined by MLCC in its sole
discretion and provided to Cendant prior   * * *  .

(c)  Forwarding of Loan Files . Immediately after the Effective Date, Cendant shall
direct all Correspondent Lenders to forward all Credit Files, Delivery Files and Servicing Files
(as each such term is defined in the applicable Commitment) to it, and Cendant shall maintain such
files in accordance with the terms of the Origination Agreement applicable to the retention of Loan
files.

(d)  Information to Correspondent Lenders . From time to time and promptly after such
documents are amended, Cendant shall distribute or otherwise make available to each Correspondent
Lender (i) any description of mortgage loan programs offered from time to time by MLCC, (ii) the
Underwriting Guidelines, and (iii) loan program parameters. Cendant shall promptly advise the
Correspondent Lenders of amendments or revisions to any of the foregoing. Cendant shall provide or
make available to each Correspondent Lender any documents required to be furnished by MLCC to a
Correspondent Lender under any Commitment or any Master Purchase Agreement.

(e)  Origination of Loans .

(i) Cendant shall ensure that all Loans originated under the Correspondent Lending
Program shall be closed in accordance with the Correspondent Lending Guide, the applicable
Master Purchase Agreement, the applicable Commitment, the Underwriting Guidelines and all
Applicable Requirements.

(ii) Promptly after the Effective Date, Cendant shall commence to direct all
Correspondent Lenders to forward Loan applications and other materials related to Loans to
Cendant for Cendant s review on behalf of MLCC.

(iii) Cendant shall perform all obligations to be performed by MLCC with respect to
Prior Approval Loans pursuant to and in accordance with the Correspondent Lending Guide, the
applicable Master Purchase Agreement and the applicable Commitment, including, but not
limited to, reviewing all forwarded materials and, subject to Section 4.01, issuing (or not
issuing) Approval Letters for Prior Approval Loans. Cendant agrees that it shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to provide a credit decision with respect to completed
applications on behalf of MLCC within   * * *  of its receipt of a completed application. For
each Prior Approval Loan, Cendant may charge    * * *    as an underwriting

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

5 

fee for each such Loan reviewed pursuant to this paragraph (whether or not an Approval
Letter is issued and whether or not such Loan closes), or any amount    * * *   , and such
charge shall be imposed by MLCC on the applicable Correspondent Lender as a third party
charge payable to Cendant.

(iv) Cendant shall perform all obligations to be performed by MLCC with respect to
Delegated Loans pursuant to and in accordance with the Correspondent Lending Guide, the
applicable Master Purchase Agreement and the applicable Commitment. For each Delegated
Loan, Cendant may charge    * * *    as a loan set-up fee for each such Delegated Loan, or any
amount    * * *   , and such charge shall be imposed by MLCC on the applicable Correspondent
Lender as a third party charge payable to Cendant.

(v) Cendant shall, prior to the closing of each Cendant Loan and at its own cost and
expense, prepare and deliver to the closing all documentation relating to the closing of
such Cendant Loan. Cendant may elect to have the applicable Wholesale Lender prepare and
deliver such documentation on its behalf, provided that Cendant shall make the forms of such
documentation available to such Wholesale Lender.

(vi) The applicable Correspondent Lender may elect to pass through any or all of these
additional charges to the Borrower subject to Applicable Requirements, and neither Cendant
nor MLCC directs the Correspondent Lender to impose such charges on the applicable Borrower.

(f)  Funding of Non-Table Funded Loans .

(i) At the end of each Business Day, Cendant shall send to MLCC aggregate funding
instructions in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B to the Origination Agreement
with respect to all Loans to be purchased as a Non-Table Funded Loan by MLCC the next
Business Day. Cendant shall attach to such funding instructions documentation comparable to
a  Form 3 Commitment Confirmation,  or a  Form 7 Payment Distribution Certificate,  and, at
the request of MLCC, a copy of the HUD-1 or other similar documentation, provided that
compliance with such request does not increase Cendant s costs to perform Cendant s services
under this Addendum. On the first Business Day after the receipt by MLCC of such
documentation from Cendant, and provided that such documentation is complete, MLCC shall
purchase such Non-Table Funded Loans in the name of MLCC by wire transfer of immediately
available funds to an account designated by Cendant. Such account shall be a custodial
account held by Cendant for the benefit of MLCC. Cendant shall be responsible for
disbursing to the applicable Correspondent Lender the applicable amount for each Non-Table
Funded Loan purchased by MLCC from such account. By giving such funding instructions,
Cendant shall be deemed to have certified to MLCC that, with respect to each Prior Approval
Non-Table Funded Loan, the conditions of the Approval Letter for such Prior

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

6 

Approval Non-Table Funded Loan have been satisfied and that each such Non-Table Funded Loan shall,
upon closing or purchase, satisfy all Applicable Requirements.

(ii) If MLCC has wired funds to Cendant pursuant to Section 2.01(f)(i) and a Non-Table
Funded Loan is not purchased on the scheduled purchase date for any reason whatsoever,
Cendant shall, upon receipt of notice of the failed purchase, wire    * * *   .

(g)  MLCC s Failure to Fund . If MLCC fails to fund, MLCC shall reimburse Cendant for
the amounts provided by Cendant in accordance with this paragraph on the prior Business Day. Such
reimbursement by MLCC shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds, plus interest
at the one-month LIBOR Interest Rate from the date that is forty-eight (48) hours after the
scheduled funding date up to and including the date the funds are received from MLCC.

(h)  Compliance with Guidelines and Law . Cendant shall cause all Loans originated,
closed and underwritten or purchased pursuant to the Correspondent Lending Program and Article II
of this Addendum to be originated, closed and underwritten or purchased in accordance with the
Underwriting Guidelines, the Correspondent Lending Guide, the applicable Commitment, the applicable
Master Purchase Agreement and in accordance with all Applicable Requirements. Cendant shall also
ensure that each Borrower shall have been provided with all federal, state and local disclosure
documentation, including, but not limited to, any disclosure relating to yield-spread premiums.
Cendant shall ensure that the Correspondent Lenders originate and close all Loans in accordance
with this Section 2.01(h)

SECTION 2.02     Payment for Correspondent Lending Services.    In consideration of
the performance of the Correspondent Lending Services, MLCC shall pay the following amounts to
Cendant: (i) an origination assistance fee of $   * * *    for each Prior Approval Loan that is a
Portfolio Loan (the   Prior Approval Origination Assistance Fee   (ii) an origination
assistance fee of $   * * *    for each Delegated Loan that is a Portfolio Loan (the   Delegated
Origination Assistance Fee   and (iii) an origination assistance fee of $   * * *    for each
Equity Access   Loan.   * * *  

SECTION 2.03     Amendment of Correspondent Lending Guide.   Each party may, from
time to time, propose amendments to the Correspondent Lending Guide. The non-proposing party shall
consider in good faith any and all proposed amendments,  provided  that such amendments would
comply with all Applicable Requirements. The proposing party shall notify the non-proposing party
of the proposed amendment at least thirty (30) days prior to the date on which the proposing party
desires such amendment to take effect. The parties shall consult with each other in good faith
during such thirty (30) day period with respect to such proposed amendment, and such amendment
shall not become effective without the prior written consent of the non-proposing party (such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld).

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

7 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, each party may, from time to time and without the consent of the
other party, amend its published underwriting guidelines, provided that the party amending its
underwriting guidelines promptly notifies the other party of such amendments. Each party shall
keep complete and accurate records of the Correspondent Lending Guide in effect from time to time.

ARTICLE III 

MORTGAGE BROKER PROGRAM 

SECTION 3.01     Mortgage Broker Services  . Cendant shall perform for and on
behalf of MLCC the following services and provide the related facilities associated with MLCC s
Mortgage Broker Program (collectively, the   Mortgage Broker Services  ):

(a)  General Duties . Cendant shall perform, in accordance with all Applicable
Requirements, all the duties and obligations of MLCC as  Lender  under any and all Broker
Agreements in effect from time to time. The performance of such duties and obligations (as more
specifically set forth below) shall include, but not be limited to, reviewing Loan applications,
responding to pre-application inquiries, providing daily interest rate sheets, preparing certain
closing documentation (or making such documentation available), providing preliminary approvals,
providing notices of final approval or declination, preparing loan closing documents, providing
funds for the funding of Loans, ensuring compliance with all Applicable Requirements, and providing
any and all legal guidance and support required in connection therewith. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Cendant shall have no obligations to purchase any Loans pursuant to the Mortgage Broker
Program other than the obligations set forth in this Addendum or any other agreement entered into
by Cendant and MLCC contemporaneously herewith.

(b)  Loan Pricing . Prior to   * * *  , Cendant shall provide to each Mortgage Broker by
facsimile or otherwise in writing an interest rate sheet containing the Mortgage Loan Pricing for
Loans. Mortgage Loan Pricing for Cendant Loans shall be determined by Cendant in its sole
discretion. Mortgage Loan Pricing for Portfolio Loans shall be determined by MLCC in its sole
discretion and provided to Cendant prior to    * * *  .

(c)  Information to Brokers . From time to time and promptly after such documents are
amended, Cendant shall distribute or otherwise make available to each Mortgage Broker (i) any
description of mortgage loan programs offered from time to time by MLCC, (ii) the Underwriting
Guidelines, and (iii) loan program parameters. Cendant shall promptly advise the Mortgage Brokers
of such amendments or revisions. Cendant shall provide to each Mortgage Broker any documents
required to be furnished by MLCC to a Mortgage Broker under any Broker Agreement.

(d)  Origination of Loans .

(i) Cendant shall ensure that all Loans originated under the Mortgage Broker Program
shall be closed in MLCC s name and in accordance with the Mortgage Broker

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

8 

Guide, the applicable Broker Agreement, the Underwriting Guidelines and all Applicable
Requirements.

(ii) Promptly after the Effective Date, Cendant shall commence to direct all Mortgage
Brokers to forward Loan applications and other materials related to Loans to Cendant for
Cendant s review for the benefit of MLCC. Cendant shall make such direction to all Mortgage
Brokers no later than September 30, 2001.

(iii) Cendant shall perform all obligations to be performed by MLCC with respect to
Loans pursuant to and in accordance with the applicable Broker Agreement and the Mortgage
Broker Guide, including, but not limited to, reviewing all forwarded materials and, subject
to Section 4.01, issuing (or not issuing) Approval Letters for Loans. Cendant agrees that
it shall use its best efforts to provide a credit decision with respect to completed
applications for the benefit of MLCC within   * * *   of its receipt of a completed
application. Subject to Section 3.01(d)(i), Cendant may cause MLCC to charge the applicable
Mortgage Broker or the applicable Borrower a fee payable to Cendant of    * * *    as an
underwriting fee for each closed Loan reviewed pursuant to this paragraph, or any amount    *
* *   .

(iv) Cendant shall, prior to the closing of each Cendant Loan and at its own cost and
expense, prepare and deliver to the closing all documentation relating to the closing of
such Cendant Loan.

(v) With respect to PrimeFirst    Loans and Equity Access    Loans,
Cendant agrees to collect from the applicable Borrower, or cause the Mortgage Broker to
collect, on behalf of MLCC, any discount point(s) charged in respect of such Loans as set
forth in the Mortgage Broker Guide.

(e)  Funding of Loans .

(i) At the end of each Business Day, Cendant shall send to MLCC aggregate funding
instructions in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B to the Origination Agreement
with respect to all Loans to be closed the next Business Day in MLCC s name pursuant to this
Article III. On the first Business Day after the receipt by MLCC of such funding
instructions, MLCC shall fund such Loans by wire transfer of immediately available funds to
an account designated by Cendant. Such account shall be a custodial account for the benefit
of MLCC. Cendant shall be responsible for disbursing to the applicable Mortgage Broker the
applicable amount for each Loan funded by MLCC to such account. By giving such funding
instructions, Cendant shall be deemed to have certified to MLCC that, with respect to each
Loan, the conditions of the Approval Letter for such Loan have been satisfied and that such
Loan shall, upon closing, satisfy all Applicable Requirements.

(ii) If MLCC has wired funds to Cendant pursuant to Section 3.01(e)(i) and a Loan does
not close on the scheduled closing date for any reason whatsoever, Cendant

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

9 

shall, upon receipt of notice of the failed closing,   * * *  .

(f)  Compliance with Guidelines and Law . Cendant shall cause all Loans originated and
closed pursuant to the Mortgage Broker Program and Article III of this Addendum to be originated
and closed in accordance with the Underwriting Guidelines, the Mortgage Broker Guide, the
applicable Broker Agreement and in accordance with all Applicable Requirements. Cendant shall
ensure that each Borrower shall have been provided with all federal, state and local disclosure
documentation, including, but not limited to, any disclosure documentation relating to yield-spread
premiums. Cendant shall ensure that all Loans originated, closed and purchased under the Mortgage
Broker Program comply with the requirements of this Section 3.01(f).

SECTION 3.02     Payment for Mortgage Broker Services  . In consideration for the
performance of the Mortgage Broker Services, MLCC shall pay the following amounts to Cendant (i) an
origination assistance fee of $   * * *    for each Loan (the   Mortgage Broker Origination
Assistance Fee   and (ii) an origination assistance fee of $   * * *    for each Equity Access
Loan.   * * *  .

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

10 

ARTICLE IV 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

SECTION 4.01     Exception Loans  . Cendant shall promptly advise MLCC about any
application for a Loan referred by a Wholesale Lender that (i) Cendant determines does not meet the
Underwriting Guidelines or the provisions of the Correspondent Lending Guide or the Mortgage Broker
Guide, as the case may be, or (ii) is for an Equity Access  Loan ((i) and (ii) each a   Program
Exception Loan  ). With respect to a Program Exception Loan described in clause (i) of the
immediately preceding sentence, promptly after advising MLCC about such application, Cendant and
MLCC shall con sult and negotiate in good faith with each other to determine: (a) why such
application does not meet the Underwriting Guidelines or the provisions of the Correspondent
Lending Guide or the Mortgage Broker Guide, as the case may be; (b) whether Cendant, in processing
such Program Exception Loan, would incur any out-of-pocket costs and expenses that would exceed
Cendant s normal and customary out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with
Cendant s processing of Loans, and the estimated amount, if any, of such excess costs and expenses;
(c) whether MLCC, Cendant, the applicable Borrower or the applicable Wholesale Lender shall pay
such costs and expenses; and (d) whether, upon closing of such Program Exception Loan, it shall be
deemed a  Portfolio Loan  or a  Cendant Loan.  If no such agreement is reached, Cendant shall have
no further obligations to process such Program Exception Loan.

MLCC may, in its sole discretion, advise Cendant to process (or to have the applicable
Wholesale Lender process) such Program Exception Loan and, if so, upon what terms and conditions
Cendant or the applicable Wholesale Lender shall process such Program Exception Loan. Upon such
direction by MLCC, Cendant shall complete the performance of the Correspondent Lending Services or
the Mortgage Broker Services, as the case may be, with respect to such Program Exception Loan.
Upon such direction by MLCC, Cendant shall issue Approval Letters on those applications associated
with a Program Exception Loan. All Approval Letters issued with respect to Program Exception Loans
shall be for loans to be made at the interest rates and prices set forth by MLCC. Cendant shall
provide any and all reasonable and customary legal guidance and support in connection with the
performance of its obligations under this paragraph.

SECTION 4.02     Mortgage 100   sm    Loans  . With respect to any Loan
originated under the Wholesale Lending Program which is an Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan,
MLCC hereby agrees that it shall, at its own cost and expense, and in accordance with MLCC s
internal guidelines and procedures regarding such loans as are attached to the Origination
Agreement as Exhibit F, carry out and perform in a timely manner all functions associated with the
establishment and administration of Securities Accounts for Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans.
MLCC shall also prepare, process and deliver, or cause to be delivered, at or prior to closing, all
documentation necessary in connection with the pledge of the Additional Collateral pertaining to
such Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans. MLCC and Cendant hereby agree to consult and cooperate
with each other, and Cendant hereby agrees to consult and cooperate with the applicable Wholesale
Lender, in connection with the origination, processing and closing of Additional Collateral
Mortgage Loans. To the extent that MLCC s internal guidelines relating to Additional Collateral
Mortgage Loans are modified, changed or amended by virtue of

agreements entered into by MLCC and Cendant after the date hereof, Cendant s obligations under this
Section 4.02 shall, without further action by MLCC or Cendant, be deemed to be expanded consistent
with the terms of such agreement. MLCC agrees that any changes to its internal guidelines relating
to Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans will be made effective for new loans registered beginning
on such date as MLCC and Cendant shall mutually agree.

SECTION 4.03     Termination of Wholesale Lenders  . (a) MLCC reserves the right
to exercise at any time (at its sole discretion) any and all rights it has or may have to terminate
for cause any and all agreements with any Wholesale Lender. Cendant acknowledges and agrees that
MLCC shall have the right to so terminate any such agreements with any Wholesale Lender. Cendant
shall notify MLCC of any Wholesale Lender that has taken, or failed to take, any action which would
give MLCC the right to terminate for cause MLCC s agreements with such Wholesale Lender. Upon such
notification, Cendant may request MLCC to exercise its rights to terminate such Wholesale Lender
for cause, and provided such request is reasonable, MLCC shall exercise such rights and terminate
for cause its agreements with such Wholesale Lender.

(b) Cendant and MLCC shall consult in good faith with each other regarding the termination
without cause of any Wholesale Lender.

SECTION 4.04     Certain Provisions of Origination Agreement Not Applicable  . The
following provisions contained in the Origination Agreement shall not apply to Loans originated and
closed pursuant to this Addendum: Section 1A (effectiveness upon closing), Section 2 (mortgage
loan types/mortgage loan pricing), Section 3 (exclusivity), Section 3A (MLCC marketing covenants),
Section 7 (mortgage loan funding), Section 12 (origination assistance fee paid by MLCC), Section 13
(customer fees and charges), Section 14 (pricing standards), Section 38 (service standards), and
Section 42 (MLPF S). The following provisions contained in the Origination Agreement shall not
apply to Loans originated and closed pursuant to Correspondent Lending Program and this Addendum:
Sections 6(a) (counselors), 6(c) (mortgage loan application processing), 6(e) (mortgage loan
closing) and 6(f) (exception loans), and the second sentence of Section 6(d) (degree of care). The
following provisions contained in the Origination Agreement shall not apply to Loans originated and
closed pursuant to the Mortgage Broker Program and this Addendum: Sections 6(e) (mortgage loan
closing) and, only with respect to any inconsistency with the terms hereof, 6(f) (exception loans).

SECTION 4.05     Duties and Obligations of MLCC  . In connection with the
Wholesale Lending Program, MLCC shall be responsible for (i) the negotiation, execution and
administration of contracts and agreements with the Wholesale Lenders, and (ii) administering and
monitoring the relationship with each Wholesale Lender. This responsibility shall include, but not
be limited to, approving Persons to become Wholesale Lenders (subject to Cendant s consent, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), entering into agreements in substantially the forms
attached hereto as Exhibits B and C with such new Wholesale Lender (provided that Cendant may, from
time to time, make reasonable requests of MLCC to change such form of agreements (provided such
requests would comply with all Applicable Requirements), and MLCC shall in good faith consider such
requests). MLCC shall ensure that each contract or agreement entered into by it with a Wholesale
Lender shall contain the right of MLCC to terminate such contract or agreement without cause upon
thirty (30) days  notice (in

2 

the case of a Correspondent Lender) or fifteen (15) days  notice (in the case of a Mortgage
Broker). MLCC shall be responsible for providing any and all legal guidance and support in
connection with its responsibilities contained in this paragraph, but not otherwise. MLCC shall
have no obligation or responsibility to provide any legal support with respect to any particular
Loan.

SECTION 4.06     Annual Cendant Survey  . Not more than once per year, Cendant
shall have the right to send to all Wholesale Lenders a performance survey. At least thirty (30)
days prior to sending any such surveys to Wholesale Lenders, Cendant shall provide MLCC a copy of
such survey and upon review of such survey, MLCC may request, and Cendant shall make, reasonable
changes to the form and content of such survey. Cendant shall promptly provide to MLCC copies of
the results of any such survey and any summaries thereof, as well as copies of Wholesale Lender
report cards produced by Cendant on a quarterly basis.

SECTION 4.07     Adjustment of Fees  . If, upon the sixth-month anniversary of the
Effective Date, and if, upon the end of each subsequent sixth-month period, there has been a
material increase (compared with the date sixth months prior) in either (i) the number of Loans
originated and/or purchased pursuant to the Wholesale Lending Program and this Addendum or (ii) the
number of Wholesale Lenders, then Cendant may propose an adjustment to the fees payable to it
pursuant to Sections 2.02 and 3.02 hereof. MLCC agrees to consider such proposal in good faith,
provided that Cendant provides, upon the request of MLCC, documentation evidencing such material
increase. As of the date of this Addendum, there are approximately    * * *    Correspondent Lenders
and approximately    * * *    Mortgage Brokers. MLCC hereby agrees that in connection with its
responsibilities to administer the relationships with all Wholesale Lenders, it shall not    * * *   
without the prior written consent of Cendant (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld).

SECTION 4.08     Limitation of Fees  . Cendant covenants and agrees that, except
for reasonable and customary third-party fees and those specifically set forth in Section
2.01(e)(iii), 2.01(e)(iv) or 3.01(d)(iii), it shall not charge any additional fees or charges to
the applicable Borrower or the applicable Wholesale Lender in connection with the closing,
underwriting or purchase of any Loan.

SECTION 4.09     Degree of Care  . Cendant agrees that it shall perform the
Correspondent Lending Services and the Mortgage Broker Services with no less degree of care than it
would exercise when performing such functions for its own account or benefit or for the account or
benefit of any third-party for which it provides similar services.

SECTION 4.10     No Assignment  . The parties hereto shall not assign all or any
part of their respective rights or obligations arising hereunder or delegate any duty other than as
permitted by this Addendum without first obtaining the written consent of the other party.

SECTION 4.11     Governing Law  . This Addendum shall be governed by, and
construed and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 4.12     Lawful Conduct; Severability; Release  . The parties hereto shall
not perform, or be expected to perform, any act hereunder that is, or is reasonably believed

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

3 

to be, in violation of any applicable local, state or federal rule or regulation. If any
provision of this Addendum is now or later in violation of any local, state or federal law, then
such provision shall be considered null and void for purposes of this Addendum with all other
provisions remaining in full force and effect. The parties agree to cooperate in good faith to
replace any such provision which is so rendered null and void with a substitute provision that
approximates as nearly as practicable the parties  original substantive intent and that does not
violate any local, state or federal law. Each party expressly releases the other from any
liability in the event either of said parties cannot fulfill any obligation hereunder due to any
prohibition under local, state or federal laws pertaining to such obligation.

SECTION 4.13     Amendments  . This Addendum may be amended and any provision
hereof waived, but only in a writing signed by the party against whom such amendment or waiver is
sought to be enforced.

SECTION 4.14     Captions  . The headings and captions in this Addendum are for
ease of reference only and shall not be relied upon in construing any provision hereof.

SECTION 4.15     Counterparts  . This Addendum may be executed in any number of
counterparts. Each counterpart so executed shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts
shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

SECTION 4.16     Construction  . This Addendum shall be construed fairly as to
both parties and not in favor of or against either party, regardless of which party prepared this
Addendum.

SIGNATURES CONTAINED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE 

4 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned parties has caused this Addendum to be duly
executed and delivered by one of its duly authorized officers, all as of the date first written
above.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
       d/b/a PHH MORTGAGE SERVICES 

By:   
     /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name     Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
     COO  

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Donald J. McEnerney

Name:   
     Donald J. McEnerney  

Title:   
     Vice President  

EXECUTION COPY

ORIGINATION ASSITANCE AGREEMENT 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

December 21, 2001 

ORIGINATION ASSITANCE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 

ORIGINATION ASSITANCE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO.1 , dated as of December 21, 2001 and effective as
of July 1, 2001 (this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT
CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East,
Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage
Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New
Jersey 08504 (  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to an Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000 (the   Origination Agreement   and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant wishes to amend the Origination Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Origination Agreement . The Origination Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:

(a)  Section 1(a) . Section 1(a) of the Origination Agreement is amended by
deleting the terms  Alternative Loans  and  Mortgage Loans  in their entirety and replacing
such terms with the following:

Alternative Loans   shall mean any of the types of Mortgage Loans listed on
Schedule 1 hereto, as the same may be amended from time to time by written agreement
between MLCC and Cendant.

Mortgage Loan   means a domestic, consumer purpose, one-to-four-family
(including cooperatives and condominiums) residential purchase money or refinance
closed-ended mortgage loan or open-ended mortgage loan. The term  Mortgage Loan  as
used herein shall include, but not be limited to, Conforming Conventional Mortgage
Loans, Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loans, PrimeFirst    Loans,
Construction Loans, Equity Access Loans, Three Year ARMs, and Five Year ARMs. This
definition is subject to the terms of  Section 1(d).

Section 1(a) of the Origination Agreement is further amended by adding, in alphabetical order, the
following defined terms:

Five Year ARMs   means an adjustable rate Mortgage Loan for which the interest
rate is fixed for the first five (5) years thereof.

Non-Fixed Rate Equity Access Loan   means any Equity Access Loan that does not
have a fixed interest rate.

Three Year ARMs   means an adjustable rate Mortgage Loan for which the interest
rate is fixed for the first three (3) years thereof.

(b)  Section 3A (e) . Section 3A (e) of the Origination Agreement is amended by
deleting such section in its entirety and replacing it with the following:

(e)  Conditional Marketing Period . (i) Subject to subparagraphs (ii) and (iii)
in this paragraph (e), until    * * *   , MLCC shall be required to perform the Conditional
Marketing Obligations (as defined in paragraph (f) below).

(ii) MLCC shall not be required to perform the Conditional Marketing Obligations in any
calendar year if, in the prior calendar year: (a)    * * *   ; (b) PHH shall have (I)(A)
experienced    * * *    Survey Failure, in which case    * * *   , (B) experienced    * * *    Survey
Failures, in which case    * * *   , or (C) experienced    * * *    Survey Failures, in which case
   * * *   , or (II) failed, at any time during such year, to comply with its obligations
contained in Sections 14(b) or (c) hereof or shall have failed to meet any of the standards
contained in Sections 14(b) or 14(c) hereof; or a  Market Change  shall have occurred.
 Market Change  in any given year shall mean    * * *   . In the event of a Market Change, the
applicable volume level referred to in clause (a) above shall be reduced by    * * *   .

(iii) In no event shall MLCC be required to perform any Conditional Marketing
Obligations following    * * *   . 

(c)  Exhibit B . Exhibit B to the Origination Agreement is amended by deleting the text
of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with Exhibit B attached hereto.

(d)  Schedule 1 . The Origination Agreement is hereby amended by adding Schedule 1
 attached  to this Amendment Agreement as Schedule 1 to the Origination Agreement.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Agreement are
included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement,

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Subservicing Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Origination Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Kevin O'Hanlon

Name:   
     Kevin O' Hanlon  

Title:   
     President  

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name:   
     Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

February 1, 2002

Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054

* * *    

Gentlemen:

1. Reference is made to the Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000,
between Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation (  MLCC  ) and Cendant Mortgage Corporation, d/b/a
PHH Mortgage Services (  Cendant  ), as amended and supplemented (the   Origination
Agreement  ). Reference is also made to the   * * *   initiative introduced by MLCC, as more
particularly described on Exhibit A hereto (the      * * *     ). Initially capitalized terms
not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Origination Agreement.

2. As you know, MLCC announced that it will offer the   * * *   effective as of February 1,
2002. Cendant acknowledges that, pursuant to the terms of the Origination Agreement, Cendant is
responsible for providing Origination Services for and on behalf of MLCC with respect to Mortgage
Loans and that Cendant is compensated therefor. Cendant further acknowledges and agrees that the
   * * *    applies, as of the date hereof, to Mortgage Loans originated pursuant to the terms of the
Origination Agreement. Accordingly, Cendant acknowledges and agrees that in connection with   * *
*  , Cendant shall   * * *  .

3. Cendant hereby agrees that it shall be fully responsible for any costs or expenses incurred
by it or MLCC that result from Cendant s failure to   * * *  . MLCC shall have no obligation
whatsoever to reimburse or otherwise pay to Cendant any such amounts   * * *  .

4. MLCC shall have the right to publicize and advertise to its clients   * * *  

5. The Origination Agreement is hereby supplemented by the terms of this letter agreement.
Cendant agrees that it shall carry out all its obligations contained in this letter agreement
strictly in accordance with the terms of the Origination Agreement. Except as supplemented by this
letter agreement, the Origination Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect,
and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

6. This letter agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed an original, but such counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument. This
letter agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of
New York.

* * * * * * 

If you are in agreement with the foregoing, please acknowledge such agreement by signing in the
space below and returning to us the enclosed duplicate of this letter agreement.

Yours truly, 
 
MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Kevin O'Hanlon

Name:   
     Kevin O'Hanlon  

Title:   
     President  

Acknowledged and agreed to as 
of the 1 st  day of February, 2002.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION

By:

Name:

Title: 

2 

6. This letter agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed an original, but such counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument. This
letter agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of
New York.

* * * * * * 

If you are in agreement with the foregoing, please acknowledge such agreement by signing in the
space below and returning to us the enclosed duplicate of this letter agreement.

Yours truly, 
 
MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   

Name:   
     Kevin O'Hanlon  

Title:   
     President  

Acknowledged and agreed to as 
of the 1 st  day of February, 2002.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION

By: 
       
       /s/ Robert E. Groody 

Name:

Robert E. Groody 

Title:

Senior Vice President 

3 

EXECUTION COPY 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO.2 

TO ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

and 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

September  30 , 2002 

4 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page  

Article I

DEFINITIONS; INCORPORATION INTO AGREEMENT

SECTION 1.01 Definitions

2 

SECTION 1.02 Incorporation of Second Addendum

3 

SECTION 1.03 Ratification

3 

Article II

THE FA GUARANTEE PROGRAM

SECTION 2.01 Additional Origination Services

3 

SECTION 2.02 Compliance with Law

3 

SECTION 2.03 Duties and Obligations of MLCC

3 

Article III

GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 3.01 No Assignment

4 

SECTION 3.02 Governing Law

4 

SECTION 3.03 Lawful Conduct; Severability; Release

4 

SECTION 3.04 Amendments

5 

SECTION 3.05 Captions

5 

SECTION 3.06 Counterparts

5 

SECTION 3.07 Construction

5 

SECTION 3.08 Indemnification

5 

Exhibit A   Form of FA Agreement

Exhibit B   Financial Advisor Mortgage Guarantee Program Description

Exhibit C   Form of Guaranty

Exhibit D   Deed of Trust/Mortgage Rider

i 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 2 TO ORIGINATION 
ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 2 TO ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT, dated as of September
  30  , 2002 and effective as of January 1, 2002 (the   Effective Date  ) (this  Second
Addendum ), between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located
at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE
CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000
Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 (  Cendant  ).

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to that certain Origination Assistance Agreement, dated
as of December 15, 2000 (as amended, the   Origination Agreement  

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to that certain Addendum Agreement No. 1 to Origination
Assistance Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001 (the   First Addendum  

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to that certain California Addendum to Origination
Assistance Agreement, dated as of October 19, 2001 (the   California Addendum  

WHEREAS, Cendant is willing to, and MLCC desires Cendant to, provide MLCC certain support
services with respect to the FA Guarantee Program (as defined below); and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant desire to supplement the Origination Agreement with the
terms and provisions set forth in this Second Addendum in order to reflect their agreement with
respect to the services to be provided by Cendant to MLCC with respect to the FA Guarantee Program;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants contained
herein and in the Origination Agreement and for other good and valuable consideration, MLCC and
Cendant hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS; 
INCORPORATION INTO AGREEMENT 

SECTION 1.01    Definitions  . Unless otherwise defined herein, all initially capitalized
terms used in this Second Addendum shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the
Origination Agreement, to which this Second Addendum shall be attached.

(a)  Certain Defined Terms . As used in this Second Addendum, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:

Borrower   means the individual or individuals obligated to repay a Mortgage Loan.

CA$H System   means the system described in Schedule A.

Deed of Trust/Mortgage Rider   means an agreement executed by a Qualified FA, a
generic/non-state specific form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit D (which form of agreement
may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of MLCC and Cendant without a formal amendment
to this  Second Addendum ), which agreement sets forth, among other things, the Qualified
FAs  agreement that any default under the FA Agreement shall constitute a default under the
Underlying Mortgage.

FA Agreement   means an agreement among the Qualified FA, MLGI and MLCC, a
generic/non-state specific form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A (which form of agreement
may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of MLCC and Cendant without a formal amendment
to this Second Addendum), which agreement sets forth, among other things, the terms and conditions
of the guarantee provided by MLGI on behalf of the Qualified FA with respect to the Underlying
Mortgage.

FA Guarantee Program   means the  Financial Advisor Mortgage Guarantee Program  as
described in Exhibit B attached hereto.

FA Guarantee Program Documentation   means, collectively, an FA Agreement, a Guaranty,
and a Deed of Trust/Mortgage Rider.

Guaranty   means a guaranty executed by MLGI in favor of MLCC, a generic/non-state
specific form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit C (which form of guaranty may be amended from
time to time by mutual agreement of MLCC and Cendant without a formal amendment to this Second
Addendum), which guaranty sets forth, among other things, the terms and conditions of the guarantee
provided by MLGI on behalf of the Qualified FA with respect to the Underlying Mortgage.

MLCC WebSite   means the web site owned and operated by Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc.
currently having a URL at http://www.ml.com, and any successor site thereof.

MLGI   means Merrill Lynch Group, Inc., or any successor group thereto.

2 

Qualified FAs   means qualified Financial Advisors as described in Exhibit B attached
hereto.

Underlying Mortgage   means a PrimeFirst    Loan, a Three Year ARM, or a Five
Year ARM written through MLCC.

SECTION 1.02    Incorporation of Second Addendum  . Unless specifically addressed below,
all terms and conditions, representations and warranties, and rights, obligations and covenants of
Cendant and MLCC set forth in the Origination Agreement shall apply or shall be deemed to be given
or made, as the case may be, to Mortgage Loans originated pursuant to the terms of this Second
Addendum, and to the subject matter of the Second Addendum. Further, except as indicated below,
all references in the Origination Agreement to  Origination Services  shall be deemed to include
the services described in Section 2.01 below, and all references in the Origination Agreement to a
 Mortgage Loan  shall be deemed to include a reference to the Mortgage Loans originated pursuant to
the terms of this Second Addendum. As such, the parties hereto agree that they shall peform their
obligations hereunder in accordance with the terms of the Origination Agreement.

SECTION 1.03    Ratification  . The Origination Agreement is hereby supplemented by the
terms and conditions of this Second Addendum. Except as supplemented by this Second Addendum, the
First Addendum, the Second Addendum and the California Addendum, the Origination Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

ARTICLE II 

THE FA GUARANTEE PROGRAM 

SECTION 2.01    Additional Origination Services  . Cendant acknowledges and agrees that
it performs, on behalf of MLCC, Origination Services with respect to Underlying Mortgages pursuant
to and in accordance with the terms of the Origination Agreement. In addition to such services, on
and after the Effective Date, Cendant hereby agrees that if the potential Borrower with respect to
an Underlying Mortgage is a Qualified FA and such Qualified FA desires to participate in the FA
Guarantee Program, Cendant shall (i) obtain confirmation from the MLCC WebSite that such potential
Borrower is a Qualified FA, (ii) provide electronic notification to MLCC that such borrower desires
to participate in the FA Guarantee Program and that the MLCC Website indicates that such potential
Borrower is a Qualified FA, such notification to be provided by Cendant in such a manner as to
provide sufficient time to allow MLCC to comply with its obligations under Section 2.03, and (iii)
on behalf of MLCC, have executed and delivered at or prior to the closing of the Underlying
Mortgage the Deed of Trust/Mortgage Rider.

SECTION 2.02    Compliance with Law  . Cendant shall ensure that all Underlying Loans
shall be closed in accordance with all Applicable Requirements.

SECTION 2.03    Duties and Obligations of MLCC  . Upon receipt of a notification
described in Section 2.01, MLCC shall prepare and have fully executed, prior to

3 

closing, a Guaranty and an FA Agreement for the Qualified FA. Upon receipt of the fully
executed Guaranty and FA Agreement, MLCC will indicate in the CA$H System that such documents have
been executed and will forward copies of the executed documents to Cendant. In addition, MLCC
shall prepare the Deed of Trust/Mortgage Rider and provide such document to Cendant for inclusion
with the closing documents. In connection with the FA Guarantee Program, MLCC shall be responsible
for (i) administering and maintaining the relationship with the Qualified FAs and (ii) ensuring
that the FA Guarantee Program Documentation is at all times legally sufficient to create the
obligations intended to be created thereby and to bind the parties intended to be bound thereby.
MLCC shall be responsible for providing any and all legal guidance and support in connection with
its responsibilities contained in this paragraph, but not otherwise. MLCC shall have no obligation
or responsibility to provide legal support with respect to any particular Underlying Mortgage.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that MLCC receives and holds any amounts derived from
a Guaranty or an FA Agreement with respect to a Borrower, and Cendant has scheduled a foreclosure
sale on the property securing such Borrower s Mortgage Loan, MLCC shall timely provide bidding
instructions to Cendant with respect to such foreclosure sale. MLCC shall be solely responsible
for collecting any sums due from MLGI under the Guaranty and MLCC and MLGI shall be solely
responsible for collecting any sums due from the Borrower under the FA Agreement. MLCC shall at
all times during the term of the Origination Agreement maintain sufficient levels of staffing and
resources necessary to comply with this Section 2.03.

ARTICLE III 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

SECTION 3.01    No Assignment  . The parties hereto shall not assign all or any part of
their respective rights or obligations arising hereunder or delegate any duty other than as
permitted by this Second Addendum without first obtaining the written consent of the other party.

SECTION 3.02    Governing Law  . This Second Addendum shall be governed by, and construed
and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.03    Lawful Conduct; Severability; Release  . The parties hereto shall not
perform, or be expected to perform, any act hereunder that is, or is reasonably believed to be, in
violation of any applicable local, state or federal rule or regulation. If any provision of this
Second Addendum is now or later in violation of any local, state or federal law, then such
provision shall be considered null and void for purposes of this Second Addendum with all other
provisions remaining in full force and effect. The parties agree to cooperate in good faith to
replace any such provision which is so rendered null and void with a substitute provision that
approximates as nearly as practicable the parties  original substantive intent and that does not
violate any local, state or federal law. Each party expressly releases the other from any
liability in the event either of said parties cannot fulfill any obligation hereunder due to any
prohibition under local, state or federal laws pertaining to such obligation.

4 

SECTION 3.04    Amendments  . This Second Addendum may be amended and any provision
hereof waived, but only in a writing signed by the party against whom such amendment or waiver is
sought to be enforced.

SECTION 3.05    Captions  . The headings and captions in this Second Addendum are for
ease of reference only and shall not be relied upon in construing any provision hereof.

SECTION 3.06    Counterparts  . This Second Addendum may be executed in any number of
counterparts. Each counterpart so executed shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts
shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

SECTION 3.07    Construction  . This Second Addendum shall be construed fairly as to both
parties and not in favor of or against either party, regardless of which party prepared this Second
Addendum.

SECTION 3.08    Indemnification  . (a) Provided that Cendant has fulfilled its
obligations hereunder, MLCC agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Cendant and its officers,
directors, employees, agents, attorneys, members and shareholders from and against any and all
liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, claims, costs,
expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (including without limitation
reasonable attorneys  fees and disbursements in connection with any investigative, administrative
or judicial proceeding) imposed on, incurred by or asserted against Cendant, whether brought under
common law or in equity, or in contract, tort or otherwise, relating to the performance by Cendant
of its obligations under this Second Addendum.

SIGNATURES CONTAINED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE 

5 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned parties has caused this Second Addendum to be duly
executed and delivered by one of its duly authorized officers, all as of the date first written
above.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
  d/b/a PHH MORTGAGE SERVICES 

By:

/s/ Gregory A. Gentek 

Name: Gregory A. Gentek 

Title: Senior V.P. 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT 
  CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Kevin O Hanlon 

Name: 

Title: 

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

December 29, 2002 

ORIGINATION ASSITANCE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 

ORIGINATION ASSITANCE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 2 , dated as of December 29, 2002, by and between
MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake
Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a
PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt.
Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to an Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000 (together with all modifications, supplements, and amendments thereto as of the
date hereof, including, but not limited to, that certain California Addendum to Origination
Assistance Agreement entered into effective as of the 19 th  day of October, 2001, that
certain Addendum Agreement No. 1 to Origination Assistance Agreement dated as of November 30, 2001,
that certain Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 21, 2001, and that certain Addendum Agreement No.
2 to Origination Assistance Agreement dated September 30, 2002 (collectively, the   Origination
Agreement   and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant wishes to amend the Origination Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment to the Origination Agreement . Section 17 of the Origination
Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following additional representation and warranty:

(u) 
       
     No Mortgage Loan: (a) is subject to Section 226.32 of Regulation Z or any similar
state or local law (relating to high interest rate credit/lending transactions); (b)
includes any single premium credit life or accident and health insurance or disability
insurance; or (c) contains any term or condition, or involves any loan origination
practice, that has been defined as  predatory ,  covered , or  threshold  under any
applicable federal, state, or local law, and in such context has been expressly
categorized as an  unfair  or  deceptive  term, condition, or practice in any applicable
federal, state, or local law dealing with  predatory  or  high cost  mortgage lending. 

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Origination Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Origination Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION   

By:

/s/ Kevin O Hanlon 

Name:

Kevin O Hanlon 

Title:

President, Chairman and CEO 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Robert E. Groody 

Name:

Robert Groody 

Title:

Chief Operating Officer 

EXECUTION COPY 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 

TO ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

and 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

October 18, 2004 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 TO 
ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 TO ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT (this
  Amendment No. 1  ), dated as of October 18, 2004, between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION,
a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida
32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey
corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054
(  Cendant  ).

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to that certain Origination Assistance Agreement, dated
as of December 15, 2000 as previously modified by, including and not limited to that certain
Addendum Agreement No. 1 to Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001
(  Addendum No. 1   and

WHEREAS, Cendant is willing to, and MLCC desires Cendant to, provide MLCC certain additional
support services for MLCC s Bulk Sale Program (as hereafter defined); and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant desires to amend, modify and/or supplement Addendum No. 1
with the terms and provisions set forth in this Amendment No. 1 in order to reflect their agreement
with respect to the additional services to be provided by Cendant for MLCC s Bulk Sale Program;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises which are incorporated herein by this
reference and the mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, MLCC and Cendant hereby
agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS; 
INCORPORATION INTO ADDENDUM NO.1 

SECTION 1.01    Definitions  . Unless otherwise defined herein, all initially capitalized
terms used in this Amendment No. 1 shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in Addendum No.
1, to which this Amendment No. 1 shall be attached.

(a)  Certain Defined Terms . As used in this Amendment No. 1, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:

Alternative Wholesale Product   means (i) any Mortgage Loan product currently
available in the Cendant wholesale product offering that is not available in the MLCC wholesale
product offering and (ii) any other Mortgage Loan product as determined on a case by case basis by
the parties hereto.

Bulk Purchase   means the purchase of any Standard Bulk Product or Non-Standard Bulk
Product.

Bulk Sale Mortgage File   means, collectively, with respect to any Bulk Sale Program
Mortgage Loan, the microfiche copies and/or hard copies and/or imaging copies (and/or copies in any
other media or format) of the following documents: (a) the Mortgage Note; (b) the recorded Mortgage
or other deed, mortgage or any other instrument which constitutes a first lien on the Mortgaged
Property securing payment by a Mortgagor of a Mortgage Note; (c) the recorded assignment to MLCC,
if any; (d) all related intervening assignments of mortgage, if any; (e) the original mortgagee
policy of title insurance, including riders and endorsements thereto (required to have the first
page with recording information and property location); (f) adjustable rate mortgage rider
certificates, if applicable; (g) appraisal of related Mortgaged Property; (h) mortgage insurance
certificates, if applicable; (i) HUD1; (j) flood certification; (k) any applicable riders to the
Mortgage Notes; (1) final truth-in-lending documents; (m) consolidation and extension documents for
modifications; (n) if the Mortgage Note or Mortgage or any other material document or instrument
relating to the Mortgage Loan has been signed by a person on behalf of the Mortgagor, the original
or copy of power of attorney or other instrument that authorized and empowered such person to sign
bearing evidence that such instrument has been recorded, if so required in the appropriate
jurisdiction where the Mortgaged Property is located; (o) primary insurance policy; (p) the
original of any guarantee executed in connection with the Mortgage Note; (q) the original of any
security agreement, chattel mortgage or equivalent document executed in connection with the
Mortgage; and (r) for co-op loans, (A) any original Form UCC-1 and any continuation statements with
evidence of filing thereon entered into by the Mortgagor with respect to such co-op loan (or a
recorded copy thereof); (B) Form UCC-3 (or copy thereof) assigning the security interest covered by
such Form UCC-1 pursuant to (A) above, together with all Forms UCC-3 (or copies thereof) showing a
complete chain of assignment from the originator of the related co-op loan to the Correspondent
Lender, if applicable; (C) the co-op lease, any assignment of the co-cop lease to the Correspondent
Lender and all intervening assignments; and (D) the recognition agreement.

Bulk Sale Origination Assistance Fee   shall have the meaning given in Section 2.03(a)
of this Amendment No. 1.

Bulk Sale Program   means the program pursuant to which MLCC is making Bulk Purchases
of Mortgage Loans from Correspondent Lenders pursuant to the Bulk Sale Addenda between MLCC and
such Correspondent Lenders.

Closing Date   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the date upon which such
Mortgage Loan is purchased by MLCC.

New Correspondent Lender   means any Correspondent Lender other than a Seasoned
Correspondent Lender.

Non-Standard Bulk Product   means any of the Alternative Wholesale Products and/or any
Portfolio Loans originated other than in accordance with MLCC Underwriting Guidelines.

Provisions Against Solicitation   shall have the meaning given in Section 6 of the
Master Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement between MLCC and the Correspondent Lender.

Quality Control   shall mean a full-file re-underwriting which will include, but not
be limited to, income credit, data integrity, legal and compliance review and property valuation.

Seasoned Correspondent Lender   means any Correspondent Lender that has sold to MLCC
at least three (3) Mortgage Loan pool deliveries with consistent and acceptable due diligence
results (determined in MLCC s sole discretion).

Securitization Assistance Fee   shall have the meaning given in Section 2.03(b) of
this Amendment No. 1.

Standard Bulk Product   means any of the Portfolio Loans originated in accordance with
MLCC Underwriting Guidelines.

Trailing Documents   means any document identified above in subpart (b), (c), (d),
(e), (f), (m), (n), (q), or (r) of the definition of Bulk Sale Mortgage File that has not been
delivered within 120 days of the related Closing Date, unless such delivery was not completed
within 120 days of the related Closing Date solely due to delays in making such delivery by reason
of the fact that such documents shall not have been returned by the appropriate recording office.

SECTION 1.02    Incorporation of Amendment No. 1  . Unless specifically addressed below,
all terms and conditions, representations and warranties, rights, obligations and covenants of
Cendant and MLCC set forth in Addendum No. 1 shall apply or shall be deemed to be given or made, as
the case maybe, to Mortgage Loans originated, and/or purchased pursuant to the terms of this
Amendment No. 1, and to the subject matter of this Amendment No. 1. Further, all references in
Addendum No. 1 to a  Mortgage Loan  shall be deemed to include a reference to the Mortgage Loans
originated and/or purchased pursuant to the terms of this Amendment No. 1. To the extent that
there is a conflict between the terms of this Amendment No. 1 and those of Addendum No. 1, the
terms of this Amendment No. 1 shall control,

SECTION 1.03    Ratification  . Addendum No. 1 is hereby supplemented by the terms and
conditions of this Amendment No. 1. Except as supplemented by this Amendment No. 1, Addendum No. 1
shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed. In
addition to any rights and obligations set forth in Addendum No. 1, the parties hereto shall
further be subject to all rights and obligations of this Amendment No. 1.

ARTICLE II 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

SECTION 2.01    MLCC Responsibilities  . For each Bulk Sale Program Mortgage Loan
Purchase, MLCC shall have the following responsibilities:

(a)  Correspondent Lender Approval; Contracts; Bidding . MLCC will be responsible for
approving each Correspondent Lender and contract negotiation and

administration. Within 30 days of execution, MLCC will furnish Cendant with copies of its
Correspondent Lender contracts and any amendments thereto. Further, MLCC shall calculate pricing
and bid determination for each Bulk Purchase.

(b)  Due Diligence and Quality Control . For Standard Bulk Products only, MLCC will
perform or cause to be performed the necessary due diligence and Quality Control procedures for New
Correspondent Lenders; for Non-Standard Bulk Products, MLCC will perform or cause to be performed
the necessary due diligence and Quality Control procedures for both Seasoned Correspondent Lenders
and New Correspondent Lenders. In addition, MLCC will facilitate all pre-funding mortgage pool due
diligence through such third parties as MLCC may select for both Standard Bulk Products and
Non-Standard Bulk Products.

(c)  Compliance Review . MLCC will, or at MLCC s option, will contract with a third
party due diligence vendor to ensure that each Correspondent Lender has provided each borrower with
all federal, state and local disclosure documentation. This Section 2.01(c) shall not diminish
Cendant s obligations under Addendum No. 1 as to Mortgage Loans outside the scope of this Amendment
No. 1.

(d)  Funding and Settlement Procedures . MLCC will perform or cause to be performed the
funding and settlement procedures with respect to any Bulk Purchase. In connection therewith, MLCC
shall also be responsible for the review and delivery of notes and assignments to the custodian.

(e)  Mortgage Loan Repurchases . MLCC may enforce repurchases of Mortgage Loans by the
Correspondent Lenders for breaches of covenants, representations and warranties based on
information provided by Cendant pursuant to Section 2.02 hereof.

SECTION 2.02    Cendant Responsibilities  . Cendant shall be responsible for supporting
the Bulk Sale Program. In particular, for each Bulk Sale Program Mortgage Loan Purchase, Cendant
shall have the following responsibilities:

(a)  Systems Requirements . Cendant will be responsible for systems coordination on
each of the following programs: (i) the CA$H program registration; and (ii) Alltel boarding and
(iii) First Data (with respect to backfill of data). In addition, the parties have identified the
following system development initiatives and have agreed to proceed as follows:

(i)  Alternative Wholesale Product Support . At MLCC s direction, Cendant agrees
to develop  shell product  functionality in CA$H that will support the Mortgage Loan
products contemplated in subsection (ii) of the definition of Alternative Wholesale Product
above. Cendant will make the shell product functionality available to MLCC no later than
six weeks after MLCC delivers complete product specifications of each such Alternative
Wholesale Product, or within such other time frame as the parties may agree as to each such
Alternative Wholesale Product. MLCC agrees to pay Cendant $  * * *  ; and

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

(ii)  CA$H Interface . Cendant agrees to develop an automated CA$H
interface to be used for the purpose of receiving bid and settlement files from
Correspondent Lenders on MLCC s behalf. The interface will be made available for MLCC s use
within  * * *  . MLCC agrees to reimburse Cendant for its actual, documented cost of
developing the interface for MLCC contingent upon (y) MLCC s approval of a budget and
payment schedule prior to the commencement of work and (z) the parties  mutual agreement
upon a cost adjustment factor that will be applied as a credit against the amount to be
reimbursed hereunder and that takes into account the residual value to Cendant of the CA$H
Interface when used by Cendant for purposes beyond the scope of this Amendment No. 1.

(b)  Defective Mortgage Loans . Cendant will notify MLCC of defective Mortgage Loans
subject to repurchase by Correspondent Lenders pursuant to the Correspondent Lending Guide within
  * * *   of discovery of such defective Mortgage Loans using a mutually agreed upon reporting format
or notice. A Defective Mortgage Loan is a Mortgage Loan which Cendant discovers during the
servicing of such Mortgage Loan is in violation of a representation, warranty or covenant made by
the applicable Correspondent Lender, including but not limited to a Mortgage Loan as to which a
Correspondent Lender has failed to deliver a Trailing Document within 270 days of the Closing Date.

(c)  Post-Funding Third Party Due Diligence and Quality Assurance . Within   * * *   of
the Closing Date, Cendant shall facilitate Quality Control using a mutually agreed upon sample size
(e.g., 10%) for Standard Bulk Products purchased from Seasoned Correspondent Lenders only. Within
  * * *   of the Closing Date, Cendant shall provide MLCC with loan level and summary information in
a mutually agreed upon format.

(d)  Trailing Documents . Cendant will be responsible for the retrieval, review and
delivery of any and all Trailing Documents. For   * * *   after the Closing Date, Cendant will make
a diligent effort to retrieve Trailing Documents and provide MLCC with monthly status reports
documenting said effort in a mutually agreed upon format. For purposes of this section, diligent
effort means that Cendant will at a minimum:   * * *  . To the extent that (i) a Bulk Sale Mortgage
File has Trailing Documents that have not been received within   * * *   of the Closing Date
(hereafter  Seriously Delinquent Trailing Document ), and (ii) MLCC chooses not to enforce a breach
with the related Correspondent Lender, then Cendant will attempt to obtain such Seriously
Delinquent Trailing Documents directly from the source at MLCC s request.

(e)  Securitization and Whole Loan Sale Support . Cendant will provide securitization
and whole loan sale support upon reasonable advance notice by MLCC prior to a prospective
transaction ( Securitization Support ). Such support will include the following activities: (i)
delivery of Bulk Sale Mortgage Files to MLCC s due diligence vendor(s) within   * * *   of request,
(ii) providing access to CMC employees and agents in accordance with Section 6(h) of the
Origination Agreement, (iii) receive and respond to loan level findings from MLCC s due diligence
vendor within   * * *   of receipt and coordinate timely responses

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

to such, (iv) receive and respond to loan level data integrity findings from third parties (e.g.,
accounting firms) as applicable, within   * * *   of receipt of notice thereof, (v) timely review and
execution of applicable contracts, and (vi) timely preparation and delivery of assignments,
endorsements, and allonges to MLCC s custodian. In the event additional support is required by
MLCC, Cendant agrees to reasonably cooperate to provide such support.

(f)  Quality Control Scorecards . Cendant will produce quality control scorecards
substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto. Such quality control scorecards will
monitor performance and provide MLCC with quarterly reports as MLCC may specify from time to time.

SECTION 2.03    Bulk Sale Program Fees  .

(a)  Bulk Sale Origination Assistance Fees . MLCC shall pay Cendant the following
origination assistance fees (each, a   Bulk Sale Origination Assistance Fee  ): (i) a loan
set-up fee of $   * * *    per Mortgage Loan that is loaded onto the CA$H system; (ii) a trailing
documents fee of $   * * *    per funded Mortgage Loan, whether or not there are any Trailing Documents
for any such Mortgage Loan; (iii) for Standard Bulk Products from Seasoned Correspondent Lenders
only, a data/credit/compliance review fee of $   * * *    per Mortgage Loan reviewed; and (iv)
reimbursement for actual out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with Quality Control and
other third party vendors. MLCC shall pay such amount to Cendant at the time of its purchase of
each such Mortgage Loan.

(b)  Securitization and Whole Loan Sale Assistance Fees . MLCC shall pay Cendant the
following securitization and whole loan sale assistance fees (each, a   Securitization
Assistance Fee  ): (i) for Standard Bulk Products only, a non-agency securitization assistance
fee of $    * * *    per Mortgage Loan and an agency securitization assistance fee of $   * * *    per
Mortgage Loan payable for each securitization containing Mortgage Loans acquired in Standard
Products or Non-Standard Products, (ii) for Non-Standard Bulk Products only, a non-agency
securitization assistance fee of $   * * *    per Mortgage Loan and an agency securitization assistance
fee of $   * * *    per Mortgage Loan payable for each securitization containing Mortgage Loans
acquired in Standard Products or Non-Standard Products, and (iii) for whole loan sale transactions,
a whole loan sale support fee of $   * * *   .   * * *  

(c)  Seriously Delinquent Trailing Document Fee . For each Mortgage Loan containing
Seriously Delinquent Trailing Documents, MLCC shall pay Cendant a fee of $   * * *    per Mortgage
Loan, plus   * * *  . Such fee shall become payable upon receipt and delivery of the applicable
documents for any particular Mortgage Loan.

(d)  Adjustment to Fees .   * * *  

SECTION 2.04    Number of Wholesale Lenders  . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in Section 4.07 of Addendum No. 1, MLCC may increase the number of Wholesale Lenders upon   * * *  .
  * * *  .

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

SECTION 2.05    Delivery of Bulk Sale Mortgage Files  . The Correspondent Lender is
responsible for the delivery of all Bulk Sale Mortgage Files to Cendant in accordance with Section
7.03 of the Amendment No. 1 to the Master Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement between MLCC and the
Correspondent Lender. MLCC and Cendant shall determine a mutually agreed upon delivery format for
each Correspondent Lender.

SECTION 2.06    Non-Solicitation; Non-Competition  .

(a) Without MLCC s prior written consent, which may be withheld by MLCC in its sole
discretion, neither Cendant nor any of its affiliated entities shall solicit any Mortgagor, or
cause any Mortgagor to be solicited, for financing of any Mortgage Loan or any product or service
whatsoever that is offered by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated or any of its
affiliated entities including, without limitation, any investment or financial services or
products, insurance products or services and brokerage account services. MLCC will cause each
Correspondent Lender to be bound by the Provisions Against Solicitation.

(b) Without Cendant s prior written consent, which may be withheld by Cendant in its sole
discretion, until after the expiration or earlier termination of this Amendment No. 1, neither MLCC
nor any of its affiliated entities shall enter into Wholesale Lender relationships with any of the
following: (i)  * * *  , (ii)    * * *   with the sole exception of the Wholesale Lenders identified in
Exhibit C attached hereto, and (iii) any of the Wholesale Lenders identified in Exhibit B attached
hereto (the   Restricted Correspondent Lenders  ). The foregoing notwithstanding, however,
it is agreed that MLCC may enter into Wholesale Lender relationships with the Restricted
Correspondent Lenders provided that the only Mortgage Loan products that shall be made available
to, or purchased from, such Restricted Correspondent Lenders shall be Mortgage Loans that are not
currently available to such Restricted Correspondent Lenders through Cendant.

SECTION 2.07    Tax and Flood Service Contracts  . All transfer fees related to the
transfer of any tax or flood service contracts on the Mortgage Loans will be paid by MLCC or the
Correspondent Lender.

(a) The tax service contract fees are as follows, unless otherwise agreed by the parties: (i)
$   * * *    for any Mortgage Loan with no existing contract or with an existing contract that was not
issued by   * * *  ; (ii) $   * * *    for certain bulk transfer loans (as of the date hereof, applicable
to  * * *  ); and (iii) $   * * *    for any Mortgage Loan with  * * *  ,  provided  all of the
following data is provided: legal description, parcel number, tax contract number, tax service
provider vendor number, city tax monthly escrow amount, county tax monthly escrow amount, next tax
amount, next tax due date, last tax amount, and last tax due date.

(b) The flood service contract fees are as follows, unless otherwise agreed by the parties:
(i) $   * * *    for any Mortgage Loan with no existing contract; (ii) $   * * *    for any Mortgage Loan
with   * * *  ; and (iii) $   * * *    for certain bulk transfer loans (as of the date hereof, applicable
to   * * *  ).

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

SECTION 2.08    Term  . The term of this Amendment No. 1 shall automatically expire on
December 31, 2005 (the  Initial Term ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Amendment No. 1 shall
be automatically extended, subject to the following sentence, without any action by the parties
hereto, for successive renewal terms of one year each, in each case beginning on January 1 of such
renewal year and ending as of the following December 31, until the expiration or earlier
termination of the Origination Agreement, at which time this Amendment No. 1 shall also terminate.
Either party may elect not to extend this Amendment No.1 by giving written notice to the other
party at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration or termination, as the case may be, of
either the Initial Term or the current renewal term of this Amendment 1.

SIGNATURES CONTAINED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned parties has caused this Amendment No. 1 to be duly
executed and delivered by one of its duly authorized officers, all as of the date first written
above.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a 
PHH MORTGAGE SERVICES 

By:

/s/ Robert J. Smith 

Name: Robert J. Smith 

Title: Senior Vice President 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION. 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Name: Lawrence P. Washington 

Title: Chairman and President 

VIA OVERNIGHT DELIVER SERVICE, 
FACSIMILE No. (856) 917-9422, and 
UNITED STATES CERTIFIED MAIL 

January 24, 2005

Re:  Origination Assistance Agreement   Amendment to Section 8 

Dear Bob:

We refer to the Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000, between the
undersigned, Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation ( MLCC ), and Cendant Mortgage Corporation ( CMC )
(as amended, supplemented and modified as of the date hereof, the  Origination Agreement ).
Initially capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given such terms in the
Origination Agreement.

In accordance with Section 8 of the Origination Agreement, MLCC hereby notifies CMC that MLCC
is amending the existing Exhibit A to the Origination Agreement ( Old Exhibit A ) by replacing Old
Exhibit A with a new Exhibit A, a copy of which is attached to this letter notification ( New
Exhibit A ). We note that the amendments effected by replacing Old Exhibit A with New Exhibit A
comply with the requirements of Section 8 of the Origination Agreement. Specifically, (i) such
amendment changes no more than ten Persons, (ii) the Persons added to the exhibit are Persons which
are Financial Services Firms, and (iii) Exhibit A to the Origination Agreement, as amended hereby,
does not contain more than twenty Persons.

Very truly yours, 

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Lawrence P. Washington 
Chairman and CEO 

Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
January 21, 2005 
Page 2

February 10, 2005

PHH Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054

Re: Change of FARC Fee  

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Reference is made to that certain PHH Financial Advisor Resource Center Expense Reimbursement
letter agreement dated January 2, 2003 (the  FARC Letter ). Pursuant to the terms of the FARC
letter, this letter shall confirm that the monthly FARC Fee shall be changed from $   * * *    to $   * *
*   , retroactively effective as of the first business day of January 2005 and for the six-month
period ending June 30, 2005.

Except as modified above, the FARC Letter remains in full force and effect and is hereby
ratified by the parties hereto. Each party to this letter agreement shall take or otherwise cause
to be taken all such other action as may be necessary to implement the terms of this letter
agreement and the FARC Letter, and shall not take any action inconsistent herewith or therewith.
This letter agreement may be executed in counterparts, taken together, which shall constitute one
and the same instrument. Delivery of a counterpart of this letter agreement by facsimile shall be
as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and PHH Mortgage Corporation have caused
this letter agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Name: Lawrence P. Washington 

Title: Chairman and President 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
  Formerly known as Cendant Mortgage  
  Corporation 

By:

/s/ Gregory A. Gentek 

Name: Gregory A. Gentek 

Title: Senior Vice President 

1 

Notification Procedures 
Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation/PHH Mortgage Corporation  
  Residential Mortgage Origination and Servicing Outsourcing Agreements  

Any notice to be given or document to be delivered to any party under any of the agreements
pertaining to the Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation ( MLCC ) and PHH Mortgage Corporation ( PHH )
transaction entered into during December of 2000/January 2001 and thereafter shall be in writing
and shall be delivered personally, transmitted by facsimile (and telephonically confirmed), mailed
by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent by overnight courier to the
other party at the following address or to any other address as either MLCC or PHH may subsequently
designate:

MLCC  : 

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, FL 32246-6484 
Attention: Lawrence P. Washington, President 
Facsimile: 904-218-6119 
Phone: 904-218-6706

with a copy to:

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, FL 32246-6484 
Attention: George T. Morrison, General Counsel 
Facsimile: 904-218-8848 
Phone: 904-218-8833

PHH :

PHH Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 
Attention: Joe Suter  
                   Mail Stop CM1 
Facsimile: 856-917-6016 
Phone: 856-917-0190

Continued on next page 

1 

with a copy to:

General Counsel s Office 
PHH Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 
Attention: William F. Brown  
                   Mail Stop LGL 
Facsimile: 856-917-0950 
Phone: 856-917-0903

With a copy to:

Assistant General Counsel s Office 
PHH Mortgage Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, Florida 32246-6484 
Attention: Louie W. Strum  
                   Mail Stop JLGL 
Facsimile: 904-928-8483 
Phone: 904-928-4437

Any notice sent by registered, certified, or overnight mail or facsimile shall be deemed
received on the actual date of delivery of the notice to the designated address as evidenced by the
applicable receipt/indication.

2 

Execution Copy  

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 

AMENDMENT NO. 3 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

(f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) 

Dated as of 

July 19, 2005 

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 3 

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 3 , dated and effective except as otherwise
indicated below as of July 19, 2005 (this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL
LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive
East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION (f/k/a Cendant
Mortgage Corporation) d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located
at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  PHH  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to an Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of December
15, 2000 (as amended and supplemented as of the date hereof, the   Origination Agreement  
and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and PHH wishes to amend the Origination Agreement in order to properly
reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Origination Agreement . The Origination
Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

(a) Section 1 (a) . The following definition is added in alphabetical order to
Section 1(a):

Permitted Amount   means, with respect to a Mortgage Loan closing in a
particular State or District of the United States, the amount set forth on Exhibit G hereto
for such State or District.

(b) Section 7 . Section 7 is amended by:

i. 
       
     Adding the following text to the end of the third
sentence of such section:  and the title of any such account shall include
language stating that PHH Mortgage Services or PHH Mortgage Corporation
holds such account as  custodian  or  trustee  for the benefit of MLCC . 

ii. 
       
     Adding the following text to the end of the fourth
sentence of such section:  and MLCC shall fund such amount or amounts on
the same day as requested by PHH at the scheduled times agreed by PHH and
MLCC, which shall include requests up to 
   * * *  , and may include an
additional request between   * * *  , as determined by late afternoon loan
closing activity.  

***  INDICATES
MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

(c)  Section 13(c) .  Effective  November 1, 2004, the text     * * *     in
the first sentence of Section 13(c) is replaced with the following text:  exceed the
Permitted Amount .

(d)  Section 21 . A new Section 21(e) is added containing the following text:
 Unless otherwise assigned or transferred by MLCC, at no time shall PHH have any legal or
beneficial interest in any Mortgage Loan or Mortgage Loan Document, but only a custodial
interest as provided in this Section 21, and MLCC shall at all times retain all of the legal
and beneficial interests in each Mortgage Loan and Mortgage Loan Document. 

(e)  Exhibit G . The Origination Agreement is amended by adding as Exhibit G
thereto Exhibit A to this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Origination Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Origination Agreement.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as of
the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Name: Lawrence P. Washington 

Title: President 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Gregory A. Gentek 

Name: 

Title: 

As of September 1, 2005

PHH Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 
Attn: Mr. Robert J. Smith

Re:  Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc. 

Dear Bob:

Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc. ( MLML ) is an affiliate of Merrill Lynch Credit
Corporation ( MLCC ). MLML would like to purchase residential mortgage loans pursuant to the
following three transactions (the  Transactions ):

MLML and MLCC have requested that PHH Mortgage Corporation ( PHH ) render the Bulk Sale
Program services hereinafter described for MLML in connection with the Transactions:

(a) For each of the   * * *   and   * * *  Transactions, and for that portion of the   * * *  
transaction pool that consists of ARM mortgage loans, all Bulk Sale Program services set forth in
Section 2.02 of Amendment No. 1 to Addendum Agreement No. 1 to that certain Origination Assistance
Agreement by and between MLCC and PHH dated as of December 15, 2000 ( Amendment No. 1 ) except for
the system development initiatives described in Sections 2.02(a)(i) and 2.02(a)(ii); and

(b) For that portion of the   * * *   transaction pool consisting of fixed rate loans that will
involve a direct tape-to-tape input into   * * *   servicing system, none of the Bulk Sale Program
services set forth in Section 2.02 of Amendment No. 1.

PHH has agreed to provide the Bulk Sale Program services described above, provided
that MLCC and MLML execute this letter agreement (this  Letter Agreement ), acknowledge
that PHH shall have no Bulk Sale Program or other responsibilities with

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

respect to the Transactions beyond those expressly stated herein, and, except for the mortgage
loans described in paragraph (b) above, MLML pays the PHH Bulk Sale Program Fees as set forth in
Section 2.03 of Amendment No. 1.

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
Amendment No. 1.

MLCC hereby agrees, and by signing below, PHH hereby agrees, that for purposes of the
Transactions only, this  Letter Agreement  amends (1) the first two agreements listed below (the
 Amended Agreements ) by (a) adding as a party thereto Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc.
( MLML ) as if named a party therein, (b) deeming MLML to have all the rights, title, interests,
privileges and obligations under each Amended Agreement as does MLCC under each Amended Agreement
and (c) providing that the performance by either of MLCC or MLML of any obligation under any
Amended Agreement shall satisfy the obligation of the other to perform such obligation and that the
performance by PHH of any obligation to either MLCC or MLML under any Amended Agreement shall
satisfy the obligation of PHH to perform such service for either or both MLCC and/or MLML,
provided, however, anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, that MLML shall be deemed an
additional party to the Amended Agreements for purposes of effectuating (i) the Transactions and
(ii) the performance by PHH of the Bulk Sale Program services in connection therewith as
contemplated herein and for no other purpose whatsoever, including by way of example and not
limitation, the necessity of any joinder, consent or approval of or by MLML to any subsequent
modification, amendment or supplement of or to the Amended Agreements as maybe mutually agreed upon
by MLCC and PHH from time to time with respect to the Bulk Sale Program or otherwise; and, (2) the
third Amended Agreement by expanding the definition of Mortgage Loans to include the mortgage loans
purchased by MLML in the Transactions.

1. Addendum Agreement No. 1 to the Origination Assistance Agreement, dated November 30, 2001;

2. Amendment No.  and

3. Assignment, Assumption, and Recognition Agreement, dated September 1, 2004.

Except as modified above, each Amended Agreement remains in full force and effect and is
hereby ratified by the parties hereto. This Letter Agreement may be executed in counterparts,
which when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of a counterpart
of this Letter Agreement by facsimile shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed
counterpart hereof.

Lastly, with respect to the servicing rights pertaining to the mortgage loans acquired
pursuant to the Transactions, PHH acknowledges that:

PHH has purchased, or will purchase, the servicing rights for the mortgage loans
acquired pursuant to the   * * *   transaction described above pursuant to Section 6(c)
of Amendment No. 2 to that certain Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement by and
between MLCC and PHH dated as of January 28, 2000 ( Amendment No. 2  

PHH will purchase the servicing rights for the mortgage loans acquired pursuant to
the   * * *   transaction described above pursuant to Section 6(c) of Amendment No. 
and 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

MLML will retain all of the servicing rights for the mortgage loans acquired
pursuant to the   * * *   transaction described above and is under no
obligation to sell those servicing rights to PHH. In addition, the parties agree as
follows with respect to the servicing of the  
  * * *   transaction: 

o 
       
     PHH will service the mortgage loans for MLML pursuant to the
Portfolio Agreement although MLML may transfer those servicing rights to
another party at any time without compensation to PHH, provided, however that
MLML shall be responsible for all transfer fees and, if the transfer of
servicing occurs within the first twelve (12) months after the initial boarding
of the loans to PHH s servicing system, MLML shall pay PHH an amount equivalent
to the average servicing fees that would be payable to PHH with respect to such
pool for an additional period of six (6) months. 

o 
       
     PHH will receive a servicing fee in the amount set forth in
Section 6(b) of Amendment No. 2. 

All servicing performed by PHH with respect to the Transactions shall be conducted
in the name of PHH and shall be neither co-branded nor otherwise handled on a private
label basis. 

MLML shall be responsible for all third party expenses charged by    * * *   with
respect to boarding the mortgage loans for the Transactions. 

This Letter Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York.

By signing below, each party hereby agrees to comply with the terms of each Amended Agreement,
as amended hereby.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc. and
PHH Mortgage Corporation have caused this letter agreement to be executed by their respective
officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Name:

Lawrence P. Washington 

Title:

Chairman and President 

MERRILL LYNCH MORTGAGE LENDING, INC. 

By:

/s/ Daniel Park 

Name:

Daniel Park, Attorney-in-Fact, 

Pursuant to Power of Attorney 

dated September 29, 2005. 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By: 

Name:

Title: 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc. and
PHH Mortgage Corporation have caused this letter agreement to be executed by their respective
officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By: 

Name:

Lawrence P. Washington

Title:

Chairman and President 

MERRILL LYNCH MORTGAGE LENDING, INC. 

By: 

Name:

Daniel Park, Attorney-in-Fact,

Pursuant to Power of Attorney 

dated September 29, 2005. 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Robert J. Smith 

Name:

Robert J. Smith 

Title:

Senior Vice President 

September 1, 2005

PHH Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054

Attention: Louie W. Strum, Assistant General Counsel

Re: Origination Assistance Agreement By and Between Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and PHH
Mortgage Corporation (f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) Dated as of December 15, 2000
( Agreement ): Field Sales Consultants

Ladies and Gentlemen:

This letter confirms the terms of a pilot program ( Program ) under which certain PHH Mortgage
Corporation (f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) ( PHH ) employees ( Field Sales Consultants )
shall generate Mortgage Loans for MLCC under the Agreement, as follows:

The Field Sales Consultants shall serve as the initial point of contact for
Customers and their Financial Advisors, and shall be available to meet in person with both
Customers and their Financial Advisors in a manner that is designed to provide personalized
and efficient service. 

The Field Sales Consultants shall perform, on a personalized basis, the
functions described in the Agreement for the Telemarketing Origination Channel. For
purposes of the Agreement, the functions performed by the Field Sales Consultants shall be
treated as part of the Telemarketing Origination Channel. 

The Field Sales Consultants shall perform all such functions with the superior
level of quality and service that would be expected by high net worth clients of a well
managed private bank. 

Each Field Sales Consultant shall have a direct reporting relationship to the
PHH Sales Manager and shall coordinate his/her activities with the MLCC Mortgage and Credit
Specialist assigned to his/her district. Each Field Sales Consultant shall receive daily
direction from the MLCC Mortgage and Credit Specialist with regard to task prioritization
and sales strategies for a particular MLPF S office. The form of business cards used by
the Field Sales Consultants shall be subject to MLCC s approval. 

When performing their services in MLPF S offices, Field Sales Consultants (i)
shall strictly limit their activities to the performance of the Origination Services, (ii)
shall conduct themselves in a professional manner, (iii) shall not sell, solicit, advise,
or counsel any Customer or other person with respect to any investment or financial
services or products (other than Mortgage Loans, as contemplated by the Agreement),
insurance products or services, or brokerage account services, (iv) shall not impede or
interfere with the conduct of MLPF S s business, and (v) shall not accept funds from
Customers. During the term of the Program, the MLPF S branch office manager or designee may
at any time notify the Field 

Sales Consultant to cease conducting activities at the MLPF S branch office and upon the
Field Sales Consultant s receipt of such notice all such activities shall cease. 

PHH and each Field Sales Consultant shall hold and maintain such individual
licenses, registrations, authorizations, approvals and permits as are required by all
Applicable Requirements, although nothing herein shall be construed to relieve MLCC of
its obligations to obtain and maintain any and all licenses and registrations that are
necessary to permit the Mortgage Loans to be originated in its name as contemplated by
the Agreement and this letter agreement. 

During the term of the Program, MLCC shall notify PHH of the states and
MLPF S offices where a Field Sales Consultant may be located and Field Sales
Consultants shall be deployed only at locations designated by MLCC for that purpose and
acceptable to PHH. These locations shall initially include Florida and Georgia, as
well as any additional locations that MLCC and PHH agree to in writing. 

The Program will commence on the date of this letter and shall continue
until February 28, 2006, on which date all activities by the Field Sales Consultants
shall cease. 

Capitalized terms used in this letter that are not defined in this letter shall have the
meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement. Except as provided in this letter, the Agreement (as
previously amended) shall remain in full force and effect.

AGREED AND ACCEPTED: 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Title:

CEO 

Date:

January 20, 2006 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION (f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) 

By:

Gregory A. Gentek 

Title:

Senior Vice President 

Date:

1/26/06 

cc:

George T. Morrison, General Counsel (MLCC) 

Stuart Boline 

Eric Wilson 

February 27, 2006

PHH Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054

Attention: Louie W. Strum, Assistant General Counsel

Re: Origination Assistance Agreement By and Between Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation ( MLCC ) and
PHH Mortgage Corporation (f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) Dated as of December 15, 2000
( Agreement ): Field Sales Consultants

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Reference is made to that certain letter agreement dated September 1, 2005, between Merrill
Lynch Credit Corporation and PHH Mortgage Corporation (the  Agreement ), confirming the terms of a
pilot program ( Program ) under which certain PHH Mortgage Corporation (f/k/a Cendant Mortgage
Corporation) ( PHH ) employees ( Field Sales Consultants ) shall generate Mortgage Loans for MLCC.

Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Program commenced on the date of the Agreement and
terminates on February 28, 2006. MLCC and PHH agree to modify the Agreement to extend the Program
until April 30, 2006, at which time the agreement shall terminate and all activities by the Field
Sale Consultants shall cease.

Except as modified above, the Agreement remains in full force and effect.

AGREED AND ACCEPTED: 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Title:

CEO 

Date:

3-8-06 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION (f/k/a Cendant Mortgage  
Corporation) 

By:

/s/ Gregory A. Gentek 

Title:

Senior Vice President 

Date:

3/6/2006 

cc:

George T. Morrison, General Counsel (MLCC) 

Marc Crawford 

Eric Wilson 

EXECUTION COPY 

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 4 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
(f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) 

Dated as of 

March 24, 2006 

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 4 

ORIGINATION ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 4 , dated as of March 24, 2006 (this
  Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION (f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) d/b/a PHH
Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt.
Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  PHH  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to an Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of December
15, 2000 (as amended and supplemented as of the date hereof, the   Origination Agreement  

WHEREAS, PHH desires to utilize the Landscape Underwriting Guidelines (as defined below) in
evaluating and originating certain mortgage loans in connection with performing its Origination
Services under the Origination Agreement, and MLCC agrees that PHH may do so in accordance with the
terms hereof and of the Origination Agreement (as amended hereby); and

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Origination Agreement . The Origination Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:

(a) Section 1(a) . The following definitions are added in alphabetical order to
Section 1(a):

Landscape Underwriting Guidelines   means the underwriting guidelines attached
hereto as Exhibit H.

Non-Alternative Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan that is not an
Alternative Loan.

(b) Section 2(a) . Section 2(a) is amended by deleting the second sentence of
such section and replacing it in its entirety with the following text:

PHH shall be responsible for developing the various Mortgage Loan Types and establishing
the Mortgage Loan Pricing for all Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loans,
Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loans and any Mortgage Loans originated under the Landscape
Underwriting Guidelines (  PHH Pricing  ). 

(c) Section 6(b) . Section 6(b) is amended by deleting the text thereof in its
entirety and replacing it with the following text:

Mortgage Loans originated under this Agreement shall be underwritten in
accordance with either (i) the  MLCC Underwriting Guidelines  which are attached
hereto as Exhibit E and made a part hereof or (ii) with respect to any
Non-Alternative Mortgage Loan, in accordance with the Landscape Underwriting
Guidelines which are attached hereto as Exhibit H and made a part hereof
 provided  that such guidelines themselves contemplate the underwriting of the
applicable type of Non-Alternative Mortgage Loan, as each set of guidelines may be
amended from time to time by mutual agreement of MLCC and PHH, and which each set of
guidelines shall comply, in the case of Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loans, with
the standards of FNMA, FHLMC and, in the case of other Mortgage Loans, other
applicable federal agencies and investors, as applicable, providing standards for the
underwriting of mortgage loans eligible for sale in the secondary market (the
guidelines referred to above in clauses (i) and (ii) are referred to herein,
collectively, as the   MLCC Underwriting Guidelines  ). PHH may not underwrite
any Alternative Loan utilizing the Landscape Underwriting Guidelines. To the extent
that the  MLCC Underwriting Guidelines  attached hereto as Exhibit E are amended by
mutual agreement of the parties after the Effective Date, and such amendments are
requested by MLCC yet not required by Applicable Requirements (as if such definition
did not contain clause (vii)),   * * *   incurred by PHH with respect to its
performance of the Origination Services hereunder which are caused by such change to
the MLCC Underwriting Guidelines shall be reimbursed by MLCC until such changes are
mandated by Applicable Requirements. PHH shall be responsible for ensuring that the
Landscape Underwriting Guidelines comply in all material respects with the Applicable
Requirements. 

(d)  Section 17(u) . The following text is added as new Section 17(u):

The Landscape Underwriting Guidelines  comply with the Mortgage Lending Laws in all
material respects. 

(e)  Section 17(v) . The following text is added as new Section 17(u):

Each Mortgage Loan that is originated under the Landscape Underwriting Guidelines
qualifies for sale to FNMA and/or FMLMC. 

(f)  Section 18(c) . Section 18(c) is amended by deleting the text of such
sentence in its entirely and replacing it with the following text:

The  MLCC Underwriting Guidelines  attached hereto as Exhibit E comply with the
Mortgage Lending Laws in all material respects. 

(g)  Exhibit H . The Origination Agreement is amended by adding as Exhibit H
thereto Exhibit A to this Amendment Agreement.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

SECTION 2.  Termination of Amendment Agreement . MLCC may, upon no less than thirty
(30) days  prior notice, terminate the amendments to the Origination Agreement set forth in this
Amendment Agreement. Upon such termination, the Origination Agreement shall automatically and
without any further action by any Person be deemed to have been re-amended to revise the amendments
set forth in this Amendment Agreement,  provided   however , that PHH shall proceed
with the processing, funding and closing of any loans affected thereby for which commitments were
issued prior to the effective date of such termination. Upon such a re-amendment, the Origination
Agreement, as re-amended thereby, shall remain in full force and effect and shall automatically and
without any further action of any Person, be ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 3.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 4.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 5:  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 6:  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Origination Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 7:  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Origination Agreement

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington 

Name: Lawrence P. Washington 

Title: Chairman and President 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Gregory A. Gentek 

Name: 

Title: 

</EX-10.67>

<EX-10.68>
 11
 y26027exv10w68.htm
 EX-10.68: PORTFOLIO SERVICING AGREEMENT

EX-10.68 

Exhibti 10.68 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 
Owner

and

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
Company

PORTFOLIO SERVICING AGREEMENT

Dated as of January 28, 2000

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

iv 

v 

EXHIBITS 

A.

Form of Report Concerning Defaulted Mortgage Loans and REO Properties 

B.

Owner s Fiscal Month Ends through December 2000 

C.

Mortgage Loan Schedule 

D.

Operations Guide 

E.

Execution Date Pricing Matrix 

F.

Form of Limited Power of Attorney 

G.

Reports to be Submitted Pursuant to Section 6.03 

H-l

Custodial Funds Account Certification 

H-2

Escrow Account Certification 

vi 

This PORTFOLIO SERVICING AGREEMENT (the  Agreement ), dated and effective as of January 28,
2000, between Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, as owner (the  Owner ), and Cendant Mortgage
Corporation, as servicer (the  Company ),

W     I     T     N     E     S     S     E     T     H   : 

WHEREAS , the Owner is in the business of originating, acquiring and servicing residential
first lien mortgage loans;

WHEREAS , the Company is in the business of originating, servicing and subservicing residential
first lien mortgage loans;

WHEREAS , the Owner and the Company have executed a Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale
Agreement dated as of the date hereof, pursuant to which the Company has agreed to purchase
servicing rights from the Owner with respect to certain residential first lien mortgage loans from
time to time;

WHEREAS , the Owner and the Company have executed a Loan Subservicing Agreement dated as of the
date hereof, pursuant to which the Company has agreed to subservice on behalf of the Owner certain
residential first lien mortgage loans, for which Owner is the servicer;

WHEREAS , the Owner and the Company have executed or will execute a Securitized Loan Primary
Servicing Agreement dated as of the date hereof, pursuant to which the Company has agreed to
subservice on behalf of the Owner certain securitized residential first lien mortgage loans, for
which Owner is the master servicer;

WHEREAS , the Owner owns certain other residential first lien mortgage loans and will be
originating residential first lien mortgage loans and the parties hereto desire the Company to
service such mortgage loans for the Owner and continue to service such mortgage loans that the
Owner subsequently sells to FNMA, institutional investors or into securitizations;

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements hereinafter set
forth, the Owner and the Company agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS  

Section 1.01.  Incorporation of Recitals: Defined Terms.

The foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Whenever used in this
Agreement, the following words and phrases, unless the context otherwise requires, shall have the
following meaning specified in this Article:

Additional Collateral   means (i) with respect to any Mortgage 100 sm  Loan,
the marketable securities subject to a security interest pursuant to the related Mortgage
100 sm 
Pledge Agreement, or (ii) with respect to any Parent Power  Mortgage Loan, the
related Parent Power  Agreement.

Additional Collateral Agreement   means a Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement,
Parent Power  Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities
Account and Parent Power  Guaranty
Agreement for Real Estate.

Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan   means each Mortgage Loan that is either a Mortgage
100 sm 
Loan or Parent  Power Mortgage Loan as to which the Additional Collateral is still
required to be provided.

Affiliate   means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or
indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person (Capitalized
terms derived from the word Affiliate (e.g.,  Affiliated ) shall have corresponding meanings.) For
the purposes of this definition,  control,   controlled by,  and  under common control with  means
the direct or indirect possession of ordinary voting powers to elect a majority of the board of
directors or comparable body of a Person.

Agreement   means this Portfolio Servicing Agreement and all exhibits hereto, all of
which are incorporated herein by this reference, as the same may from time to time be amended or
supplemented by one or more instruments executed by all parties hereto.

Ancillary Fees   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan; (i) all late charges, (ii)
all fees payable pursuant to Cendant s  Speed Pay  program, (iii) all returned-item charges (e.g.
NSF charges) and (iv) modification conversion fees.

Applicable Requirements   means and includes, as of the time of reference, with respect
to the Mortgage Loans, all of the following: (a) all contractual obligations of Owner (and any
Originator and/or Prior Servicer) or Company contained in this Agreement, the other Transaction
Agreements, the Mortgage Loan Documents, the applicable guides or any agreement with any Insurer,
for which obligations Owner (and any Originator and/or Prior Servicer) or Company is responsible or
at any time was responsible; (b) all applicable federal, state, and local legal and regulatory
requirements (including laws, statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances) binding upon Owner (and
any Originator and/or Prior Servicer) or Company; (c) all other applicable

2 

requirements and guidelines of each governmental agency, board, commission, instrumentality, and
other governmental body or office having jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, those of any
Insurer; (d) all other applicable judicial and administrative judgments, orders, stipulations.
awards, writs, and injunctions; (e) with respect to Company s obligations, the provisions of the
Operations Guide; and (f) the reasonable and customary mortgage servicing practices of prudent
mortgage lending institutions that service mortgage loans of the same type as the Mortgage Loan the
jurisdiction in which the related Mortgaged Properties are located.

Appraised Value  , means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the value of the related
Mortgaged Property based upon the lesser of (i) the appraisal made for the Originator at the time
of origination of the Mortgage Loan, and (ii) if applicable, the sales price of the Mortgaged
Property at such time of origination.

Arbitrator   means, with respect to any arbitrator selected by a party to this
Agreement. an arbitrator that is Independent of such party and has expertise in the valuation of
mortgage loan servicing rights.

ARM Loan   means a Mortgage Loan with a Mortgage Rate that is adjustable pursuant to the
terms of the related Mortgage Note.

Assignment   means, with respect to a Mortgage Loan, a written instrument that, when
recorded in the appropriate office of the local jurisdiction in which the related Mortgaged
Property is located, will reflect the transfer of the Mortgage Instrument identified therein from
the transferor to the transferee named therein.

Base Servicing Fee Rate   means with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the fee payable
monthly to the Company pursuant to Section 7.01 at the rate per annum set forth in the Pricing
Matrix.

BSA   means the regulations set forth in 31 C.F.R. Part 103, promulgated under the Bank
Secrecy Act, 12 U.S.C.  1829b, 12 U.S.C.   1951-1959 and 31 U.S.C.   5311-5330, and similar
requirements under state laws and regulations.

BSA Policies and Procedures   shall have the meaning given in Article XIV hereof.

Business Day   means any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii) a day on which
banking institutions in the States of New Jersey, Florida or New York are required or authorized by
law or by executive order to be closed or (iii) a day on which Owner or the Company is not actually
open for business.

Cendant   means Cendant Mortgage Corporation and its successors in interest.

Cendant Mortgage Loan   means a Mortgage Loan originated by the Company pursuant to the
Origination Agreement.

Company   means Cendant or any successor under this Agreement appointed as herein
provided.

Company Indemnified Parties   shall have the meaning given in Section 12.01 hereof.

3 

Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan   shall have the meaning given in Section 2.03(b)
hereof.

Condemnation Proceeds   means all awards or settlements in respect of a taking of a
partial or an entire Mortgaged Property by exercise of the power of eminent domain or condemnation.

Custodial Funds Account   means the separate trust account or accounts created and
maintained pursuant to the FNMA Servicing Guide and which shall be entitled  Cendant Mortgage
Corporation, in trust for Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, Investor Number      or such other
title as is requested by the Owner.

Defaulted Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan (i) as to which a Monthly Payment is
three (3) months or more past due or (ii) for which the Mortgagor has filed for bankruptcy or (iii)
for which foreclosure proceedings have been commenced or are underway.

Due Date   means the first day of the month, which is the day each Monthly Payment is
due on a Mortgage Loan, exclusive of any days of grace.

EDP   means the electronic data processing system used by Owner and the Company, which
are licensees of ALLTEL Information Services, Inc.

Equity
Access  Agreement   means the revolving line of credit agreement entered into
between MLCC and the guarantor under any Parent Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate pursuant
to which a line of credit may be drawn upon by MLCC to fund the payment by such guarantor of a loss
specified in such Parent Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate.

Equity
Access  Mortgage   means the mortgage, deed of trust or other security instrument
(including all amendments and supplements thereto) made by the
guarantor under any Parent Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate to secure its obligations thereunder and under the related
Equity Access  Agreement.

Escrow Account   means the separate trust account or accounts created and maintained
pursuant to the FNMA Servicing Guide which shall be entitled  Cendant Mortgage Corporation, in
trust for Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and various mortgagors, Investor Number    ,  or
such other title as is requested by Owner.

Excess Servicing   means that portion of the interest rate on a Mortgage Loan (other
than the contractual Servicing Fee under a servicing agreement with a Subsequent Purchaser) payable
to the Owner as excess servicing compensation.

Execution Date Pricing Matrix   means the pricing matrix attached hereto as   Exhibit
E  .

Fair Market Value   means the average of the fair market values as determined by two
Arbitrators, one selected by the Owner and one selected by the Company, which Arbitrators shall use
commercially reasonable methods to determine the appropriate pricing for the Servicing

4 

Rights related to such Mortgage Loans, The Owner and the Company will exchange appropriate
documentation supporting the opinions of their respective Arbitrators.

Federal Funds Rate   means the per annum rate of interest (rounded upward to the nearest
1/100 of 1%) that is the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions
arranged on such day or, if such day is not a Business Day, the previous Business Day, by federal
funds brokers computed and released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or any successor) in
substantially the same manner as such Federal Reserve Bank currently computes and releases the
weighted average it refers to as the  Federal Funds Effective Rate  at the date of this Agreement.

FDIC   means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor thereto.

FHA   means the Federal Housing Administration or any successor thereto.

FHLMC   means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or any successor thereto.

Final Purchase Price Adjustment   means with respect to a Mortgage Loan, the product of
(i) the outstanding principal balance as of a particular date and (ii) the corresponding applicable
percentage(s) set forth on the Pricing Matrix relating to the Final Servicing Fee Rate, loan size,
escrow characteristics, remittance style, and Maximum Interest Rate, less the amount previously
paid pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement for the Servicing Rights relating to such Mortgage
Loan.

Final Servicing Fee Rate   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan that is the subject
of a Transfer, the portion of the Gross Yield Differential payable to the Company pursuant to
Section 7.02, as determined by the Owner. Such rate shall be expressed on a per annum basis and be
payable monthly.

Fiscal Month End   means, with respect to any calendar month, the date the Owner
considers to be the last day of the related fiscal month for accounting purposes. The Owner s
Fiscal Month Ends through December 2000 are detailed in   Exhibit B  . No later than December
1 st  of every year that this Agreement is in effect, the Owner shall provide the Company
an updated list of the Owner s Fiscal Month Ends through December of the following year, such list
to be substantially in the form of   Exhibit B  .

Fiscal Month Remittance   means, with respect to any calendar month, the remittance made
to the Owner, pursuant to Section 6.02(b), of collections of principal and interest received by the
Company on the Warehouse Mortgage Loans and Special Warehouse Mortgage Loans from the    * * *    day
of such calendar month up to and including the related Fiscal Month End.

Fiscal Month Remittance Date   means with respect to each Fiscal Month Remittance, the
date on which the related remittance of collections of principal and interest on the Warehouse
Mortgage Loans and Special Warehouse Mortgage Loans is made to the Owner, which shall be within    * * *   
after the related Fiscal Month End.

FNMA   means the Federal National Mortgage Association or any successor thereto.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

5 

FNMA Loan   means any Mortgage Loan guaranteed by and/or serviced for or on behalf of
FNMA, as investor.

FNMA Servicing Guide   means the FNMA Servicing Guide, as amended from time to time.

GNMA   means the Government National Mortgage Association or any successor thereto.

Gross Yield Differential   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan that is the subject
of a Transfer, the difference between the Mortgage Rate and the rate to be remitted to a Subsequent
Purchaser.

HUD   means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Indemnified Party   shall have the meaning given in Section 12.03(b) hereof.

Indemnifying Party   shall have the meaning given in Section 12.03(b) hereof.

Independent   means, with respect to the Owner or the Company, that such Person does not
have any material direct financial interest in or any material indirect financial interest in the
Owner or the Company and has no connection with the Owner or the Company or any Affiliate thereof
as an officer, employee, promoter, underwriter, trustee, partner, director or Person performing
similar functions.

Insurance Proceeds   means the proceeds of any mortgage insurance policy, title policy,
hazard policy or other insurance policy covering a Mortgage Loan, if any, to the extent such
proceeds are not to be applied to the restoration of the related Mortgaged Property or released to
the Mortgagor in accordance with the procedures the Company is required to follow in servicing
mortgage loans pursuant to this Agreement.

Insurer   means an entity that insures or guarantees all or part of the risk of loss on
a Mortgage Loan, including but not limited to, any private mortgage insurance provider, standard
hazard insurance provider, flood insurance provider, earthquake insurance provider or title
insurance provider.

Interim Remittance   means, with respect to any specified calendar month, the remittance
made to the Owner, pursuant to Section 6.02(a), of collections of principal and interest received
by the Company on the Warehouse Mortgage Loans and Special Warehouse Mortgage Loans from the day
after the Fiscal Month End of the preceding calendar month up to and including the    * * *    day of
the specified calendar month.

Interim Remittance Date   means with respect to each Interim Remittance, the date on
which the related remittance of collections of principal and interest on the Warehouse Mortgage
Loans and Special Warehouse Mortgage Loans is made to the Owner, which shall be within    * * *   
after the    * * *    day of the related calendar month.

Knowledge   means that whenever any representation, warranty or other statement
contained in this Agreement is qualified by reference to  Owner s or the Company s

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

6 

knowledge  or  to the best of Owner s or the Company s knowledge,  that qualified reference shall
be deemed to include knowledge of facts or conditions of which Owner or the Company either is
actually aware of or should have been aware under the circumstances in the discharging of Owner s
or the Company s servicing duties. All matters of public record that, at the time of origination
of any Mortgage loan originated by Owner, appeared in the related title insurance
policy/commitment shall be deemed to be known by Owner, and all matters contained or disclosed in
any Mortgage Loan Documents shall be deemed to be known by Owner or the Company.

Liquidation Proceeds   means amounts, other than Insurance Proceeds and Condemnation
Proceeds, received by the Company (or the Owner in connection with a Complex Defaulted Mortgage
Loan) in connection with the liquidation of a Defaulted Mortgage Loan through foreclosure sale or
other disposition (including, but not limited to, amounts received from MLCC with respect to a
Parent Power  Agreement or a Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement), other than amounts
received following the acquisition of an REO Property.

Loan Information   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the servicing, loan level
and other information described in Exhibit 3 to the Operations Guide.

Loan-to-Value Ratio   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, as of any date on which
a determination thereof is made, the ratio on such date of the outstanding principal balance of
such Mortgage Loan to the Appraised Value of the related Mortgaged Property.

Loss   means, in respect of any indemnification arising under this Agreement, any and
all losses, claims, damages, penalties, liabilities, obligations, judgments, settlements, awards,
demands, offsets, defenses, counterclaims, actions or proceedings, reasonable out-of-pocket costs,
expenses and attorneys  fees of the Indemnified Party (including but not limited to, (a) any
reasonable costs, expenses and attorneys  fees incurred by the Indemnified Party in enforcing such
right of indemnification against any Indemnifying Party or with respect to any appeal, and (b)
interest at the Federal Funds Rate on any amount for which the Indemnified Party is entitled to be
indemnified from the date the Indemnified Party notifies the Indemnifying Party of the expenditure
or such amounts until such amounts are paid by the Indemnifying Party;  provided, 
 however , that in no event shall a  Loss  include a claim for consequential damages,
indirect damages or lost profits except when the Loss results from fraud or willful misconduct of
the Indemnifying Party.

Maximum Interest Rate   means, with respect to any FNMA Loan that is not a Cendant
Mortgage Loan, the average of the FNMA posted net 60-day commitment rate for 30 year mortgages plus
   * * *    for the    * * *    preceding a Transfer. With respect to all other Mortgage Loans that are
not Cendant Mortgage Loans, the average of the FNMA posted net 60-day commitment rate for 30 year
mortgages plus    * * *    for the    * * *    preceding a Transfer.

MLCC   means Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and its successors in interest.

Monthly Advance   means the aggregate of the advances made by the Company on any
Portfolio Remittance Date pursuant to Section 6.03.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

7 

Monthly Payment   means the scheduled monthly payment of principal and/or interest on a
Mortgage Loan which is payable by a Mortgagor from time to time under the related Mortgage Note on
every Due Date.

Mortgage 100   sm    Loan   means a Mortgage Loan secured by Additional Collateral
in the form of a security interest in the securities and other assets held in a Trading Account and
having a value, as of the date of origination of such Mortgage Loan, at least equal to the related
Original Additional Collateral Requirement.

Mortgage 100   sm    Pledge Agreement   means, with respect to each Mortgage
100 sm  Loan, the Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement for Securities Account
between the related Mortgagor and MLCC pursuant to which such Mortgagor granted a security interest
in the securities and other assets held in the Trading Account.

Mortgage Instrument   means any deed of trust, security deed, mortgage, land contracts,
or any other instrument that constitutes a first lien on real estate (or, in the case of a co-op
loan, the applicable security agreement and financing statements) securing payment by a Mortgagor
of a Mortgage Note.

Mortgage Loan   means the first lien residential mortgage loans identified on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule, which Mortgage Loan Schedule may be amended from time to time as Owner
originates new mortgage loans that are the subject of this Agreement.

Mortgage Loan Documents  , means the Mortgage Instruments, Mortgage Notes and
Assignments, and such other documents required to originate and service a Mortgage Loan.

Mortgage Loan Remittance Rate   means, with respect to each Mortgage Loan, the related
Mortgage Rate minus the related Servicing Fee Rate.

Mortgage Loan Schedule   means the schedule of Mortgage Loans serviced pursuant to this
Agreement, which has been delivered to Owner, containing the information set forth in   Exhibit
C   attached hereto, which Mortgage Loan Schedule may be amended from time to time as Owner
originates new mortgage loans subject to this Agreement.

Mortgage Note   means the mortgage note, deed of trust note, security deed note, or
other form of promissory note executed by a Mortgagor and secured by a Mortgage Instrument
evidencing the indebtedness of the Mortgagor under a Mortgage Loan.

Mortgage Rate   means the per annum interest rate payable by the Mortgagor on a Mortgage
Loan according to the terms of the Mortgage Note.

Mortgaged Property   means any one- to four-family residence (at the time of the
origination of the applicable Mortgage Loan) that is encumbered by a Mortgage Instrument, including
all buildings and fixtures thereon and all accessions thereto, and including installations of
mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning systems located in or affixed to
such buildings, and all alterations, additions and replacements thereto. The term  Mortgaged
Property  shall include, to the extent the context shall permit or require, a dwelling unit in a
residential cooperative housing corporation.

8 

Mortgagor   means any and all -obligors under a Mortgage Note and/or Mortgage
Instrument.

Operations Guide   means the Operations Guide attached hereto as   Exhibit D  , as
the same shall be amended from time to time by Owner.

Original Additional Collateral Requirement   means, with respect to any Additional
Collateral Mortgage Loan, generally    * * *    of the original principal balance of such Mortgage Loan
or such other    * * *    as is specified by MLCC in connection with the origination of such Additional
Collateral Mortgage Loan.

Origination Agreement   means the Mortgage Loan Purchase and Services Agreement dated as
of September 24, 1997 between Owner and PHH Mortgage Services Corporation.

Originator   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the person(s), entity or entities
that (a) took the relevant Mortgagor s loan application; (b) processed the relevant Mortgagor s
loan application; and/or (c) closed and/or funded such Mortgage Loan.

Owner   means MLCC or any successor under this Agreement appointed as herein provided.

Owner Indemnified Parties   shall have the meaning given in Section 12.02 hereof.

Parent
Power  Agreement   means, with respect to each Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan, a
Parent Power  Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities
Account or a Parent Power  Guaranty
Agreement for Real Estate.

Parent
Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate   means, with respect to a Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan, an agreement between MLCC and a guarantor on behalf of the Mortgagor under
such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan pursuant to which the guarantor guarantees the payment of certain
losses under such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan, authorizes MLCC to draw on the related Equity
Access  Agreement to fund such guaranty and has secured such Equity Access  Agreement with a lien
on residential real estate of the guarantor.

Parent
Power  Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account   means, with
respect to a Parent Power  Mortgage Loan, an agreement between MLCC and a guarantor on behalf of
the Mortgagor under such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan pursuant to which such guarantor guarantees
the payment of certain losses under such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan and has granted a security
interest to MLCC in certain marketable securities to collateralize such guaranty.

Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan   means a Mortgage Loan that at the time of origination has
a Loan-to-Value Ratio generally in excess of MLCC s maximum acceptable Loan-to-Value Ratio for such
Mortgage Loan and that is guaranteed by a Parent Power  Agreement.

Pass-Through Transfer   means the sale or other transfer (which may include one or more
related, intermediate transfers in a whole loan format to one or more Affiliates of the Owner) of
some or all of the Mortgage Loans to a Subsequent Purchaser that is a trust or another

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

9 

person as a part of a transaction (i) that involves (A) the sale of securities evidencing an
interest in such Mortgage Loans or (B) the public issuance or private placement of securities
evidencing an interest in such Mortgage Loans, which securities also may evidence an interest in
other mortgage loans, may be issued through a REMIC and may, as a condition to their issuance, be
rated  AA/Aa  or higher by the Rating Agencies and (ii) for which the Company or the Owner will act
as the master servicer of the Mortgage Loans.

Permission Agreement   means the Permission Agreement dated as of the date hereof.
between Owner and the Company.

Person   means an individual, corporation, limited Liability company, partnership, joint
venture, trust, or unincorporated organization, or a federal, state, city, municipal, or foreign
government, or an agency or political subdivision thereof.

Pledge Agreement   means any Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement or Parent Power   
Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account related to an Additional Collateral Mortgage
Loan.

Portfolio Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan that, as of any given date, the Owner
does not intend to effect a Transfer of within
    * *
*   .  All such Mortgage Loans shall be
identified by the Owner in accordance with the terms of Section 7.03.

Portfolio Remittance Date   means the    * * *    day of any month or, if such    * * *    day
is not a Business Day, the first Business Day immediately following such    * * *    day.

Prepayment Interest Shortfall   means, with respect to any Portfolio Remittance Date and
any Portfolio Mortgage Loan or Special Portfolio Mortgage Loan that was the subject of a Principal
Prepayment during the related Principal Prepayment Period, an amount, to be paid from the Company s
own funds and not reimbursable to the Company, equal to one month s interest at the related
Mortgage Loan Remittance Rate on the amount of such Principal Prepayment, less the amount of
interest (adjusted to such Mortgage Loan Remittance Rate) paid by the Mortgagor in respect of such
Principal Prepayment.

Pricing Matrix   means (i) on the date of this Agreement and each date thereafter
(subject to clause (ii) of this sentence), the Execution Date Pricing Matrix and (ii) on and after
the date on which any repricing in the Execution Date Pricing Matrix first becomes effective, the
pricing matrix as then in effect.

Principal Prepayment   means any payment or other recovery of principal on a Mortgage
Loan that (i) is received in advance of its scheduled Due Date, including any prepayment penalty or
premium thereon, and (ii) is not accompanied by an amount of interest representing scheduled
interest due on any date or dates in any month or months subsequent to the month of prepayment.

Principal Prepayment Period   means, as to any Portfolio Remittance Date, the calendar
month preceding such Portfolio Remittance Date.

Prior Servicer   means any Person that was a servicer or subservicer of any Mortgage

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

10 

Loan before Owner became the servicer of the Mortgage Loan.

Purchase and Sale Agreement   means the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement
dated as of the date hereof, between the Owner, as seller, and the Company, as purchaser.

Ratings Agency   means Standard   Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.,
Moody s Investors Service, Inc., Fitch Investors Service, L.P. and Duff   Phelps Credit Rating Co.
and, in connection with any Pass-Through Transfer, any other nationally recognized statistical
rating organization from which the Owner or any of its Affiliates may seek a rating with respect to
such Pass-Through Transfer.

REMIC   means a real estate mortgage investment conduit, as such term is defined by the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

REO Disposition   means the final sale by the Company of any REO Property.

REO Property   means any Mortgaged Property owned in fee simple by Owner as a result of
a foreclosure of a Mortgage Loan, or similar action.

RESPA   means the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, 12 U.S.C   2601 et seq., and
Regulation X, 24 C.F.R.   3500.21, thereunder, as the foregoing may be amended from time to time.

Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement   means the Securitized Loan Primary
Servicing Agreement dated as of the date hereof, between Owner, as master servicer, and the
Company, as primary servicer.

Servicing Advance   means the outstanding moneys that have been advanced by the Company
from its funds in connection with its servicing of a Mortgage Loan (including, but not limited to,
taxes, ground rents, assessments, insurance premiums, release fees, foreclosure and bankruptcy fees
and expenses, and other expenses) (i) that have been made by the Company in accordance with the
terms and provisions herein, (ii) that are recoverable through Liquidation Proceeds, Insurance
Proceeds and/or Condemnation Proceeds, or that are made at the direction of the Owner or to
preserve its security interest in the related Mortgaged Properties and (iii) for which the Company
has a right of reimbursement from Mortgagors, Insurers, the Owner and/or Subsequent Purchaser, or
otherwise.

Servicing Fee   means with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the fee payable monthly to the
Company pursuant to Section 7.01 or 7.02, as applicable.

Servicing Fee Rate   means with respect to each Mortgage Loan, the rate per annum set
forth in the Pricing Matrix.

Servicing Rights   has the meaning set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

Special Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan designated as a Special Mortgage Loan by
the Owner.

11 

Special Portfolio Mortgage Loan   means any Special Mortgage Loan that, as of any given
date, the Owner does not intend to effect a Transfer of within    * * *   . All such Special Portfolio
Mortgage Loans shall be identified by the Owner in accordance with the terms of Section 7.03.

Special Warehouse Mortgage Loan   means any Special Mortgage Loan contemplated by the
Owner to be available for sale to a Subsequent Purchaser or to be designated as a Special Portfolio
Mortgage Loan at some future date. All Special Mortgage Loans shall be designated as Special
Warehouse Mortgage Loans unless the Owner indicates otherwise, as provided in Section 7.03.

Subsequent Purchaser   means any Person that acquires an interest in a Mortgage Loan
from the Owner.

Subservicing Agreement   means the Loan Subservicing Agreement dated as of the date
hereof between Owner, as servicer, and the Company, as subservicer.

Trading Account   means, with respect to any Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan as to
which a Pledge Agreement was made, the account in which the securities and other assets that are
subject to such Pledge Agreement are held.

Transaction Agreements   means this Agreement, the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the
Subservicing Agreement, the Permission Agreement and the Securitized Loan Primary Servicing
Agreement.

Transfer   means a Pass-Through Transfer or a Whole Loan Transfer.

Transfer Date   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the date on which the Company
begins physically servicing the Mortgage Loan. The initial transfer date is anticipated to be
April 3, 2000, but may be extended to such later date as to which the parties may agree.

Warehouse Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan contemplated by the Owner to be
available for sale to a Subsequent Purchaser (other than Special Warehouse Mortgage Loans) or to be
designated as a Portfolio Mortgage Loan at some future date. All Mortgage Loans other than Special
Mortgage Loans shall be designated as Warehouse Mortgage Loans unless the Owner indicates
otherwise, as provided in Section 7.03.

Whole Loan Transfer   means the sale or other transfer to a Subsequent Purchaser of some
or all of the Mortgage Loans by the Owner in a whole loan format for which the Company will act as
the servicer of the Mortgage Loans pursuant to a servicing agreement with substantially the same
terms and conditions as this Agreement or another agreement mutually acceptable to the Owner and
the Company.

Section 1.02.    General  .

The terms defined herein include the plural as well as the singular and the singular as well
as the plural.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

12 

ARTICLE II 

COMPANY TO SERVICE MORTGAGE LOANS  

Section 2.01.    Company to Act as Servicer.  

(a) Commencing on the applicable Transfer Date, the Company shall service each Mortgage Loan
in accordance with applicable law and the terms and conditions of (i) the related Mortgage Loan
Documents, (ii) this Agreement, (iii) the Purchase and Sale Agreement, (iv) the Permission
Agreement, (v) to the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing, the Operations Guide, and (vi) to
the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing, the FNMA Servicing Guide. The Operations Guide may
be amended from time to time by Owner with the Company s prior written consent (which shall not be
unreasonably withheld), without formal amendment of this Agreement. To the extent of a conflict
between the Operations Guide and this Agreement, this Agreement shall control. The provisions of
the Permission Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement.

(b) In the event the Company fails to service any ARM Loan consistent with the servicing
standards set forth in Section 2.01(a) above, the Company shall notify the Owner within    * * *    and
shall take all appropriate actions required to correct any such servicing deficiencies so that such
loans are thereafter serviced in compliance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. The
Company shall be solely responsible for any costs and expenses required to effectuate such
remediation, except to the extent that any such servicing deficiency was a continuation of a
failure by Owner or any Prior Servicer to service an ARM Loan in accordance with the Applicable
Requirements (other than the Company s continuation of such previous servicing practices after the
Company knew or should have known that such previous servicing practices violated the Applicable
Requirements). In addition to the foregoing, the Company shall take such additional corrective
action as may be directed by the Owner, the cost of which shall be the sole responsibility of the
Owner.

(c) The Company shall maintain an EDP containing all information and programming necessary to
service the Mortgage Loans in accordance with Section 2.01(a) above. The Mortgage Loans shall be
grouped on the Company s EDP to reflect the Owner as the owner of the Mortgage Loans. In addition,
each Mortgage Loan shall be designated on the Company s EDP to reflect whether such Mortgage Loan
is a Portfolio Mortgage Loan, Special Portfolio Mortgage Loan, Warehouse Mortgage Loan or Special
Warehouse Mortgage Loan.

(d) The Company may not waive, modify or vary any term of a Mortgage Note or Mortgage
Instrument without the Owner s prior written consent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company
may enter into a modification agreement, in the Owner s name, modifying a Mortgage Note to
reamortize the monthly payments of principal and interest upon (i) receipt of a prepayment equal to
or greater than 20% of the then outstanding principal balance of the Mortgage Note and (ii) the
request of the Mortgagor. Within    * * *    after the complete execution of such modification
agreement, the Company shall provide the Owner with the original executed document. The Company
shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local legal and regulatory requirements
(including laws, statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances) in connection with the modification
of the Mortgage Note.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

13 

(e) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall follow any reasonable
directions given by the Owner with respect to the servicing of the Mortgage Loans.

(f) With the exception of Ancillary Fees and any other charges expressly permitted by the
Mortgage Note, Mortgage Instrument, and applicable law, the Company covenants and agrees that it
will not,    * * *   .

(g) The Owner agrees to provide the Company on the first Transfer Date, and shall, as
necessary, promptly furnish the Company such limited powers of attorney as are necessary and
appropriate to assist the Company to carry out its servicing and administrative responsibilities
under this Agreement. A form of such limited power of attorney is attached hereto as   Exhibit
F  . The Owner shall appoint a limited number of assistant vice presidents (or more senior
officers) of the Company, who are also  department heads  of the Company, as  Limited Authorized
Signatories  of the Owner, as set forth in Owner s corporate resolution.

(h) The Company agrees that it shall supply Owner on a daily basis (i) the Loan Information
for each Mortgagor and (ii) aggregate loan information on the Mortgage Loans, in accordance with
the specific timing, transfer, and other requirements set forth in the Operations Guide, in the
manner and in the time frame set forth therein.

(i) In connection with its duties hereunder, in the event the Company requires an original of
any document contained in a Mortgagor s file to service a Mortgage Loan, it shall submit a written
request to the Owner and the Owner shall provide the original document to the Company within two
(2) Business Days after receipt of the written request, provided that (a) as to any recorded
document, the applicable recorder s office has returned the recorded document to the Company or (b)
as to the original title insurance policy, the Company has received such policy. If Owner does not
have the original Mortgage Note, Owner shall work with the Company to fulfill the servicing
responsibility that gave rise to the Company s request for the original Mortgage Note. Upon the
written request of the Owner, the Company shall provide the Owner with copies of any documents
related to a Mortgage Loan, within two (2) Business Days of such request.

(j) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Owner shall service and
administer all Additional Collateral, it being understood and agreed that only Owner shall service
and administer the related securities accounts, lines of credit, Equity Access    Mortgages, and
guarantees with respect to Additional Collateral Agreements.

(k) In the event the Company receives a request to convert an adjustable interest rate to a
fixed rate (or an adjustable rate based on one index to an adjustable rate based on a different
index) pursuant to the terms of the related Mortgage Note, the Company shall process the request in
accordance with the terms of the Mortgage Note and continue to service the Mortgage Loan after
conversion in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

14 

(l) Any information, reports or other written communication regarding a Mortgage Loan shall
indicate whether it is a Portfolio Mortgage Loan, Special Portfolio Mortgage Loan, Warehouse
Mortgage Loan or Special Warehouse Mortgage Loan.

Section 2.02.    Title, Management and Disposition of REO Property.  

(a) If title to a Mortgaged Property is acquired in foreclosure or by deed in lieu of
foreclosure, the deed or certificate of sale shall be taken in the name of the Owner.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not acquire title to any Mortgaged Property, or
proceed with the management of any REO Property, for which the Company has Knowledge that such
Mortgaged Property or REO Property is affected by hazardous waste, but shall promptly notify the
Owner of such condition, and thereafter follow such reasonable directions as the Owner may provide.
The Company shall either itself, or through an agent approved by the Owner (which approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld), manage, conserve, protect and operate each REO Property (and may
temporarily rent the same) in accordance with the Owner s direction.

(b) The Company shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the applicable Custodial Funds
Account, on a daily basis, all revenues received with respect to each REO Property and shall be
permitted to withdraw therefrom, to the extent of the amount of such revenues on deposit therein,
funds necessary for the proper operation, management and maintenance of such REO Property,
including but not limited to the cost of maintaining any hazard insurance and the fees of any
managing agent acting on behalf of the Company.

(c) If the Company elects to dispose of an REO Property without utilizing the services of an
agent, the Company shall notify the Owner of its receipt of any and all bona fide offers to
purchase that REO Property. Each such REO Disposition shall be carried out by the Company at such
price, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Owner shall approve in writing.

If the Company utilizes the services of an approved agent to dispose of an REO Property, the
Company shall provide the Owner with a copy of such agent s marketing plan, which shall include,
but not be limited to, (i) the marketing time period, (ii) an estimate of the costs of any repairs
or improvements, (iii) the lowest acceptable sale price for the REO Property and (iv) other
proposed terms and conditions of sale. Within five (5) Business Days after receipt of any such
marketing plan, the Owner shall review the plan and notify the Company in writing as to whether the
terms and conditions thereof are acceptable to the Owner. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Owner s failure to provide such written notification to the Company within such five (5) Business
Day period shall not be deemed acceptance of the marketing plan. If the terms, conditions and
lowest acceptable sale price set forth in the marketing plan are acceptable to the Owner, the REO
Disposition shall be carried out by the Company in accordance with the terms thereof. If the
Company receives a bona fide offer to purchase an REO Property and would like to accept the offer,
but the offer is outside the parameters of the approved marketing plan, the Company shall provide
the Owner with written notification of the terms and conditions of the offer. Within five (5)
Business Days after receiving the terms and conditions of such offer, the Owner shall review the
offer and notify the Company in writing as to whether such terms and conditions are acceptable to
the Owner. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Owner s failure to provide such written notification
to the Company within such five (5) Business Day period shall not be deemed acceptance of the
offer.

15 

The Company, upon an REO Disposition, shall be entitled to reimbursement for any related
unreimbursed Servicing Advances from proceeds received in connection with such REO Disposition. If
the proceeds from an REO Disposition are insufficient to reimburse the Company for any related
unreimbursed Servicing Advances, the Company shall be entitled to withdraw any such deficiency from
amounts on deposit in the applicable Custodial Funds Account. All proceeds from an REO
Disposition, net of any reimbursement to the Company as provided above, shall be remitted to the
Owner within    * * *    following receipt thereof.

Section 2.03.    Defaulted Mortgage Loans  

(a) The Company agrees to report monthly to the Owner all Defaulted Mortgage Loans and all REO
Properties serviced pursuant to this Agreement. Such reports shall be provided on a monthly basis
in the form set forth on   Exhibit A   .

(b) The Owner reserves the right (but not the obligation) to elect to administer certain
default servicing activities relating to any Defaulted Mortgage Loan or REO Property upon written
notice to the Company (hereinafter referred to as a  Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan ). As to any
REO Property, the Company shall provide the Owner with written notification of the related
foreclosure sale within    * * *    after the date of such foreclosure sale. The Owner shall notify
the Company within one (1) Business Day after receiving such notification from the Company in the
event the Owner elects to administer default servicing activities relating to the REO Property.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time during the period in which a Mortgage Loan is
delinquent, the Owner may provide written notice to the Company of the Owner s election to
administer default servicing activities in connection with an REO Property after the foreclosure
sale. If the Owner elects to assume such activities as set forth above, the Owner shall not be
obligated for any fees or commissions due any agent previously retained by the Company.

In accordance with such notice from the Owner, the Company shall forward to the Owner all
relevant documentation relating to such Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan and shall comply with all
reasonable transfer requests of the Owner. Upon the transfer from the Company to the Owner of the
relevant files and documentation, the Owner shall commence default servicing activities and shall
report the status of such Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loans to the Company on a monthly basis.
Other than the specific default servicing activities undertaken by the Owner in this Section 2.03,
the Company shall be responsible for complying with this Agreement, including but not limited to
any reporting and remittance of any funds received in connection with any Complex Defaulted
Mortgage Loan. Owner shall not be entitled to receive any compensation for such services. In the
event a Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan reinstates or Liquidation Proceeds are received by the
Owner, (i) the Owner shall remit such funds to the Company, (ii) the Company shall again be fully
responsible for the servicing for such Mortgage Loan, (iii) the Owner shall forward the related
mortgage file and all other relevant documentation to the Company, and (iv) the Owner shall comply
with all reasonable transfer requests of the Company.

(c) In connection with any expenses incurred by Owner for any Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan
under Section 2.03(b), upon receipt of any related invoices, the Owner shall forward such invoices
to the Company for payment in the ordinary course of business.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

16 

Section 2.04.    Owner s Right to Examine Company Records   . 

(a) The Company  shall cooperate with the Owner, its counsel, accountants. supervisory
agents, examiners and other representatives in providing reasonable access during normal business
hours to examine and audit any and all of the books, records, documentation or other information of
the Company related to the Mortgage Loans, which may be relevant to the performance or observance
for the Company of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement.

(b) The examination and audit rights and other rights to access described in clause (a) above
shall be afforded by the Company at its offices without charge, upon reasonable request, and during
normal business hours or at such other times as may be reasonable under applicable circumstances.
The Company, at its expense, shall make available all customary, reasonable office space,
facilities, and equipment for the visiting party and shall provide the visiting party with access
to reasonable cooperation with its officers and employees. The salaries, travel, subsistence and
other related expenses for Owner s representatives shall be borne by the Owner.

Section 2.05.    Legal Proceedings Involving the Company and/or the Mortgage Loans.  

(a) The Company shall not, without giving prior written notice to the Owner, commence, defend,
appear, or otherwise participate in any foreclosure, condemnation, bankruptcy, or other legal
proceedings in the name of the Owner. The Owner shall have the right to control any such matters
undertaken by the Company at the Owner s request. The Company shall provide the Owner, on a
monthly basis, with such written reports as the Owner .shall reasonably request, regarding any
legal proceedings.

(b) The Company shall commence all foreclosures, bankruptcies and other legal proceedings in
the name of the Owner unless otherwise directed in writing by the Owner.

Section 2.06.    Material Changes  .

The Company shall promptly report to the Owner any change in its business operations,
financial condition, properties or assets that could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s ability to perform its obligations hereunder. Events for which the Owner must receive
notice include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) any merger or consolidation, any changes in the Company s ownership whether directly or
indirectly (including any change in ownership of the Company s parent), or any significant
reorganization;

(b) any material changes in management ordered or required by a regulatory authority
supervising or licensing the Company;

(c) the entry against the Company of a decree or order of a court or agency or supervisory
authority having jurisdiction for the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver, liquidator,
assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) in any federal or state bankruptcy,
insolvency, readjustment of debt, marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar

17 

proceedings, or for the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs, if such decree or order has
remained in force undischarged or unstayed for a period of sixty (60) days;

(d) the consent by the Company to the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver,
liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) in, or commencement of
a voluntary case under, any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, readjustment of debt,
marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings;

(e) upon the Company s (A) admitting in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as
they become due, (B) filing a petition to take advantage of any applicable insolvency or
reorganization statute, (C) making an assignment for the benefit of its creditors or (D)
voluntarily suspending payment of its obligations;

(f) entry of any court judgment or regulatory order in which the Company is or may be required
to pay a claim or claims that may have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
condition;

(g) any admission by the Company to the commission of, or any finding that the Company has
committed, any violation of any law, regulation or order in any proceeding or audit commenced by
any governmental, or regulatory authority, or any proceeding commenced in any court of law;

(h) the commencement of any class action law suits against the Company; and

(i) the Company s entry into any agreement with a third party that would result in any
material change in the financial status or ownership of the Company or any merger of the Company.

Section 2.07.    Company Shall Provide Information as Reasonably Required.  

During the term of this Agreement, the Company shall furnish any reports or documentation that
the Owner may reasonably request. Reports requested may include reports not specified or otherwise
required by this Agreement or reports required to comply with any regulations regarding any
supervisory agents or examiners of the Owner. All reports will be delivered in accordance with the
Owner s reasonable instructions and directions. The Company agrees to execute and deliver all such
instruments and take all such action as the Owner, from time to time, may reasonably request in
order to effectuate the purpose and to carry out the terms of this Agreement. To the extent not
required by the Operations Guide or if not a standard report produced by the Company s EDP, any
set-up costs incurred by the Company for such reports requested by the Owner shall be borne by the
Owner.

Section 2.08.    Company Not to Resign  .

The Company shall not resign from the obligations and duties hereby imposed on it except by
mutual consent of the Company and the Owner. No such resignation shall become effective until a
successor shall have assumed the Company s responsibilities and obligations hereunder in the manner
provided in Section 13.01.

18 

Section 2.09.    Training  .

No later than March 3, 2000, Owner and the Company shall have completed a training program for
the Company s employees in the proper servicing of interest-only ARM Loans subject to this
Agreement. To assist the Owner in conducting such training, the Company shall provide the Owner
reasonable access to the Company s facilities, employees and EDP and, if reasonably deemed
appropriate by the Owner, shall send the Company s employees to the Owner s offices in
Jacksonville, Florida to attend that portion, if any, of such training conducted at such offices.
The Owner and the Company shall bear their own costs and expenses, including but not limited to
salaries, travel, subsistence and other related expenses when visiting the other party for
training. The party being visited shall, at its expense, make available all customary, reasonable
training facilities and equipment for the visiting party. The Owner shall provide the training
personnel and training materials.

Section 2.10.    Custodial Funds Accounts and Escrow Accounts  

The Company shall segregate and hold all funds collected and received pursuant to each
Mortgage Loan separate and apart from any of its own funds and general assets. The Company shall
create and maintain Custodial Funds Accounts and Escrow Accounts for the deposit of all funds,
except as otherwise provided herein, received by the Company on the Mortgage Loans. The creation
of the Custodial Funds Accounts and Escrow Accounts shall be evidenced by the Company by a
certification in the form of Exhibit H-1 and H-2, respectively. A copy of such certification shall
be delivered to the Owner no later than    * * *    prior to the first Transfer Date.

Section 2.11.    Assumption Processing  

Within    * * *    of receipt by the Company of a request by a Mortgagor to be released from
liability for payment of a Mortgage Loan in connection with an assumption of the related Mortgage
Note, the Company shall notify the Owner of such request. The Company shall thereafter cooperate
with the Owner, and follow all reasonable directions provided by the Owner. The Owner shall be
responsible for administering the request directly with the Mortgagor, including, but not limited
to the sending of all applicable disclosures required by law, obtaining all necessary financial
information from the proposed new obligor, and obtaining any additional documentation and execution
of documents. Upon the completion of the assumption processing, the Owner shall provide the
Company with all necessary information to enable the Company to update its EDP.

Section 2.12.    Transfer of Funds to the Custodial Funds Accounts and Escrow Accounts; Payments of Advances  

The Custodial Funds Accounts and Escrow Accounts shall be funded by the Owner and reconciled
in accordance with Section 4.16 of the Purchase and Sale Agreement. The Company shall pay the
Owner any Advances (as such term is defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement), in accordance with
Section 3.02(e) of the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

19 

OWNER REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  

In addition to representations and warranties, if any, made elsewhere in this Agreement.
Owner represents and warrants to the Company as of the date hereof and each applicable Transfer
Date, as follows:

Section 3.01.    Organization and Good Standing.  

Owner is a corporation duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the laws
of the State of Delaware. Owner has in full force and effect (without notice of possible
suspension, revocation or impairment) all required qualifications, permits, approvals, licenses,
and registrations, or exemptions therefrom, to conduct all activities in all jurisdictions in which
its activities with respect to the Mortgage Loans require it to be qualified or licensed.

Section 3.02.    Authority and Capacity; Ordinary Course.  

Owner has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to carry on its business as it
is now being conducted, to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to perform all of its
obligations hereunder. Owner does not believe, nor does it have any cause or reason to believe,
that it cannot perform each and every covenant contained in this Agreement.

Section 3.03.    Effective Agreement  .

The execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement by Owner and consummation of the
transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate,
shareholder, or other action by Owner; this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and
delivered by Owner; and this Agreement is a valid and legally binding agreement of Owner,
enforceable against Owner in accordance with its respective terms, subject to bankruptcy,
insolvency and similar laws affecting generally, the enforcement of creditors  rights and the
discretion of a court to grant specific performance of contracts.

Section 3.04.    No Conflict  .

Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement, nor the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby, nor compliance with its respective terms and conditions shall (a) violate,
conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a default under, be prohibited by, or require
any additional approval under any terms, conditions, or provisions of Owner s Certificate of
Incorporation or by-laws, or any other similar corporate or organizational documents of Owner, any
mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, or other agreement or instrument to
which Owner is now a party or by which it is bound; or any law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order,
judgment or decree of any governmental authority applicable to Owner, or (b) result in the creation
or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance of any material nature upon any of the properties
or assets of Owner.

Section 3.05.    Approvals and Compliance.  

Owner is approved and in good standing with each Insurer, and holds all licenses, approvals,
permits, and other authorizations, or exemptions therefrom, required under Applicable

20 

Requirements to originate, if Owner was the Originator, and to service the Mortgage Loans.

Section 3.06.    Insurance . 

Error and omissions and fidelity insurance coverage, in the amounts required by FNMA, is in
effect with respect to Owner and will be maintained with respect to the related Mortgage Loans
until such time as the Company is no longer the servicer of the Mortgage Loans.

Section 3.07.    Litigation.  

There is no litigation, claim, demand, proceeding or governmental investigation existing or
pending, or to the Knowledge of Owner, threatened, nor is there any order, injunction or decree
outstanding against or relating to Owner that could (i) have a material adverse effect upon the
performance by Owner of its obligations under this Agreement or (ii) to Owner s Knowledge, result
in any material loss or liability to the Company. Further, to Owner s Knowledge, there is no
meritorious basis for any such litigation, claim, demand, proceeding, or governmental
investigation.

Section 3.08.    Financial Condition of Owner.  

Neither Owner, its parent, nor any of its subsidiaries is in bankruptcy, receivership or
conservatorship. Owner has the requisite financial resources and ability to meet its obligations
under this Agreement, including, but not limited to, any and all indemnification obligations.

ARTICLE IV 

COMPANY REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  

In addition to representations and warranties, if any, made elsewhere in this Agreement, the
Company represents and warrants to the Owner as of the date hereof and each applicable Transfer
Date, as follows:

Section 4.01.    Organization and Good Standing.  

The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the
laws of the State of New Jersey. The Company has in full force and effect (without notice of
possible suspension, revocation or impairment) all required qualifications, permits, approvals,
licenses, and registrations, or exemption therefrom, to conduct all activities in all jurisdictions
in which its activities with respect to the Mortgage Loans require it to be qualified or licensed.

Section 4.02.    Authority and Capacity; Ordinary Course.  

The Company has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to carry on its business
as it is now being conducted, to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to perform all of its
obligations hereunder. The Company does not believe, nor does it have any cause or reason to
believe, that it cannot perform each and every covenant contained in this Agreement.

21 

Section 4.03.    Effective Agreement  .

The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company and consummation of
the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
corporate, shareholder or other action by the Company; this Agreement has been duly and validly
executed and delivered by the Company; and this Agreement is a valid and legally binding agreement
of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its respective terms, subject to
bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting generally the enforcement of creditors  rights
and the discretion of a court to grant specific performance of contracts.

Section 4.04.    No Conflict  .

Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement, nor the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby, nor compliance with their respective terms and conditions shall (a) violate,
conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a default under, be prohibited by or require any
additional approval under any terms, conditions or provisions of the Company s articles of
incorporation or by-laws or any other similar corporate or organizational document of the Company;
any mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement or other agreement or instrument
to which the Company is now a party or by which it is bound; or any law, ordinance, rule,
regulation, order, judgment or decree of any governmental authority applicable to the Company; or
(b) result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance of any material nature
upon any of the properties or assets of the Company.

Section 4.05.    Approvals and Compliance.  

The Company holds all licenses, approvals, permits and other authorizations, or exemptions
therefrom, required under Applicable Requirements to assume responsibility for servicing the
Mortgage Loans.

Section 4.06.    Litigation  .

There is no litigation, claim, demand, proceeding or governmental investigation existing or
pending, or to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened, nor is there any order, injunction or
decree outstanding against or relating to the Company that could (i) have a material adverse effect
upon the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement or (ii) to the
Company s Knowledge, result in any material loss or liability to Owner. Further, to the Company s
Knowledge, there is no meritorious basis for any such litigation, claim, demand, proceeding, or
governmental investigation.

Section 4.07.    Agency Approval  .

The Company has been approved by GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC and will remain approved as an  eligible
seller/servicer  of residential mortgage loans as provided in GNMA, FNMA, or FHLMC guidelines and
in good standing. The Company has not received any notification from GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC that the
Company is not in compliance with the requirements of the approved  seller/servicer  status. The
Company is a mortgagee approved by the Secretary of HUD pursuant to Section 203 and 211 of the
National Housing Act. The

22 

Company has not received any notification from HUD that the Company is not in compliance with the
requirements of the approved mortgagee status.

Section 4.08.    Servicing Compliance  .

The servicing practices to be used by the Company under this Agreement are, and shall remain,
in all material respects in compliance with all Applicable Requirements, including without
limitation, all federal, state and local laws, rules, all regulations and requirements in
connection therewith, and FNMA guidelines, as applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Company s representations and warranties as to the proper servicing of interest-only ARM loans
shall be effective upon the fulfillment of the covenants set forth in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement.

Section 4.09.    No Inquiries  .

The Company has not received written notice from or on behalf of FHA, HUD, FDIC, FNMA, FHLMC
or GNMA, advising the Company of its failure to comply with applicable servicing or claims
procedures, or resulted in a request for repurchase of mortgage loans or indemnification in
connection with any mortgage loans.

Section 4.10.    Contingency Plan  .

The Company has in place a contingency plan that will enable it to perform its obligations
under this Agreement in all material respects, at another location within    * * *    in the event its
primary location is rendered inoperative as a result of a natural or other disaster or emergency,
and once the Company relocates to its backup site, it shall make arrangements to connect the Owner
to the Company s backup EDP and provide continued service as stated in this Agreement, provided
that the Company has granted the Owner access to its primary EDP.

Section 4.11.    Licenses and Approvals  .

(a) The Company maintains and shall maintain, in good standing, all licenses and approvals
necessary to service the Mortgage Loans and maintains and shall at all times maintain the capital
requirements imposed by the licensing or approving entities having jurisdiction over the Company.

(b) The Company has filed applications for all applicable licenses and qualifications to do
business and to service the Mortgage Loans in the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Section 4.12.    Fidelity and E O Insurance.  

The Company maintains and shall at all times maintain error and omissions and fidelity
insurance coverage of the type and in the amounts required by FNMA.

Section 4.13.    Sufficiency of Systems and Personnel.  

The Company has, and shall at all times maintain during the term of this Agreement,

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

23 

sufficient systems, including but not limited to the Company s EDP, and trained and experienced
personnel in place to perform. its obligations under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Company s representations and warranties as to the proper servicing of ARM Loans
shall be effective upon the fulfillment of the covenants set forth in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement.

Section 4.14.    Compliance with Laws  .

For so long as, and to the extent that, the Company services the Mortgage Loans, the Company
will continue to comply with each applicable federal, state, or local, law, statute, and ordinance,
and any rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder, pertaining to the subject matter of this
Agreement, including, but not limited to, usury, RESPA, Consumer Credit Reporting Act, Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, Regulation B, Fair Credit
Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Housing Act, Truth in Lending Act and
Regulation Z, Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, and any applicable regulations related
thereto, and such other fair housing, anti-redlining,  equal credit opportunity, truth-in-lending,
real estate settlement procedures, fair credit reporting, and every other prohibition against
unlawful discrimination in residential mortgage lending or governing consumer credit, and all state
consumer credit statutes and regulations, as amended. In the event the Owner has a reasonable good
faith belief in the Company s non-compliance with this Section 4.14 and upon Owner s written
request, the Company shall deliver to Owner reasonable evidence of compliance with any of the
requirements of this Section 4.14.

Section 4.15.    Financial Condition of the Company.  

Neither the Company, its parent, nor any of its subsidiaries is in bankruptcy, receivership or
conservatorship. The Company has the requisite financial resources and ability to meet its
obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited to, any and all indemnification
obligations.

ARTICLE V 

BOOKS AND RECORDS;   
   TRANSFER OF MORTGAGE LOANS  

Section 5.01.    Books and Records  .

The Company shall be responsible for maintaining, and shall maintain, a complete set of
records for the Mortgage Loans. The Company s books and records shall clearly reflect the
ownership of the Mortgage Loans by the Owner and subsequent assignments and transfers of the
Mortgage Loans pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof. All documents, records and correspondence,
regardless of the media in which they are stored or maintained, are property of the Owner, and the
Company shall hold the same in a fiduciary capacity for the Owner. The Company may retain copies
of all such documents, records and correspondence as may be necessary to service the Mortgage Loans
under this Agreement.

24 

Section 5.02.    Transfer of Mortgage Loans.  

(a) The Company acknowledges that from time to time the Owner intends to sell and/or assign to
various Subsequent Purchasers all or a portion of the Mortgage Loans that are subject to this
Agreement, thereby effecting one or more Whole Loan Transfers or Pass-Through Transfers of such
Mortgage Loans. The Company acknowledges that the Owner shall have the right to sell and assign
any or all of the Mortgage Loans, and the Company shall recognize the related Subsequent Purchaser
as the owner of such Mortgage Loans. With respect to each Whole Loan Transfer and each
Pass-Through Transfer, as applicable, entered into by the Owner or any Affiliate of the Owner, the
Company agrees to assist the Owner in various capacities, and shall, among other things:

(i) cooperate fully and negotiate in good faith with the Owner, any prospective
Subsequent Purchaser, any Rating Agency or any party to any agreement executed in connection
with such Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer with respect to all reasonable
requests and due diligence procedures and shall use its best efforts to facilitate such
Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer; provided, however, that if the information
provided by the Company to satisfy any such request or to comply with any such procedure is
not required by any other Transaction Agreement, or is not contained in a standard report
produced by the Company s EDP, any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Company
to provide such information shall be paid by the Owner. However, it is agreed that the
Owner shall provide notice to Company of a: (i) Whole Loan Transfer within five (5)
Business Days of the related trade date and (ii) Pass-Through Transfer within five (5)
Business Days of the submission of a loan pool to the Rating Agencies;

(ii) execute as servicer or sub-servicer, as the case may be, all applicable agreements
to be executed (or amend existing contracts, as necessary) in connection with such Whole
Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer that govern the servicing and administration of the
Mortgage Loans (and any agreements and other documents incidental thereto, including
officer s certificates) as the Owner reasonably requests. The governing documents for
Pass-Through Transfers shall contain provisions customarily included in secondary mortgage
market securitized transactions with respect to like assets that provide for the public
issuance or private placement of securities that (a) evidence an interest in mortgage loans
like the Mortgage Loans and (b) one or more classes of which may be rated  AA/Aa  or higher
by the Rating Agencies, provided that no such agreement or amendment materially increases
the existing duties of the Company under the Transaction Agreements;

(iii) restate as of the closing date for a Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer
the representations and warranties set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement; provided,
however, that the Company may qualify any such representation or warranty to reflect an
event or circumstance that arose after the applicable Transfer Date and that would cause
such representation or warranty to be inaccurate, so long as such event or circumstance is
not a breach by the Company of any term or condition of any Transaction Agreement.

25 

(iv) deliver to the Owner or its Affiliates, at the expense of the Owner, for inclusion
in any prospectus, private placement memorandum or other offering material or disclosure
document such written information regarding the Company or its Affiliates as shall be
reasonably requested by the Owner or its Affiliate (including but not limited to its audited
financial statements, and its mortgage loan delinquency, foreclosure and loss experience)
and indemnify and hold harmless the Owner and any Affiliate of the Owner for any and all
liabilities, losses and expenses arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in
connection with any material misstatement contained in such written information or any
omission of a material fact the inclusion of which was necessary to make such written
information not misleading;

(v) deliver to the Owner, and to any Person designated by the Owner, the Company s
audited financial statements and such written information provided by the Company or its
Affiliates (including but not Limited to the information referred to in clause (iv) above
and as set forth in Section 11.02 of this Agreement) as shall be reasonably requested by the
Owner or its Affiliates;

(vi) deliver to the Owner, and to any Person designated by the Owner, at the expense of
the Owner, such opinions of counsel, if any, as are customarily delivered by servicers in
connection with Whole Loan Transfers or Pass-Through Transfers;

(vii) provide, on an ongoing basis from information obtained through its servicing of
the Mortgage Loans, any information necessary to enable the  tax matters person  for any
REMIC in a Pass-Through Transfer, including any master servicer or trustee acting in such
capacity, to perform its obligations in accordance with applicable law and customary
secondary mortgage market standards for securitized transactions, one or more classes of
securities issued in which are rated  AA/Aa  or higher by the Rating Agencies; provided,
however, that if such information is not required by any other Transaction Agreement, or is
not contained in a standard report produced by the Company s EDP, any set-up costs incurred
by the Company to provide such information shall be borne by the Owner.

(viii) maintain any applicable custodial account and escrow account in accordance with
the requirements of the Rating Agencies for a securitized transaction, one or more classes
of securities issued in which are rated  AA/Aa  or higher, which requirements may include
maintaining such custodial account and escrow account with a depository institution the
long-term unsecured debt rating of which is rated  AA/Aa  or higher by the Rating Agencies.

(b) Notwithstanding clause (ii) of Section 5.02(a), no agreements, consents or modifications
referred to therein shall contain any provisions that reduce the Servicing Fee as to any Mortgage
Loan or that affect the calculation of the Servicing Fee as to any Mortgage Loan in a manner that
is materially adverse to the Company. All Mortgage Loans not sold or transferred pursuant to a
Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer shall be subject to this Agreement and shall continue
to be serviced and administered in accordance with the terms hereof and with respect thereto this
Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

26 

ARTICLE VI 

PAYMENTS TO THE OWNER  

Section 6.01.    Paid-in-Full Remittances.  

The Company shall determine, and shall accept, the amount required to pay a Warehouse Mortgage
Loan or Special Warehouse Mortgage Loan in full, including interest to the related payoff date, and
within    * * *    after the Company s receipt of such proceeds shall remit the same to the Owner. The
Company shall include a schedule of Mortgage Loans paid in full with such remittance substantially
in the form of the ALLTEL report P110 that provides loan-level detail of the proceeds received from
such remittances.

Section 6.02.    Monthly Remittances  .

(a) On each Interim Remittance Date, the Company shall remit to the Owner all collections of
principal and interest received with respect to the Warehouse Mortgage Loans and Special Warehouse
Mortgage Loans from the period beginning on the day after the previous Fiscal Month End and ending
on the    * * *    day of the calendar month of such remittance. Such remittance shall not include
payments relating to Warehouse Mortgage Loans and Special Warehouse Mortgage Loans that were paid
in accordance with Section 6.01.

(b) On each Fiscal Month Remittance Date, the Company shall remit to the Owner all collections
of principal and interest received with respect to the Warehouse Mortgage Loans and Special
Warehouse Mortgage Loans from the period beginning on the    * * *    day of the calendar month
relating to such remittance and ending on the Fiscal Month End of such month. Such remittance
shall not include payments relating to Warehouse Mortgage Loans and Special Warehouse Mortgage
Loans that were paid in accordance with Section 6.01.

(c) On each Portfolio Remittance Date, the Company shall distribute to the Owner with respect
to all Portfolio Mortgage Loans and Special Portfolio Mortgage Loans: (i) all amounts due on the
Due Date immediately preceding that Portfolio Remittance Date; plus ( ) (ii) any Principal
Prepayments received during the related Principal Prepayment Period; plus ( ) (iii) any related
Prepayment Interest Shortfalls.

Section 6.03.    Monthly Advances by the Company.  

(a) On each Portfolio Remittance Date the Company shall, pursuant to Section 6.02(c), remit to
the Owner the total of all scheduled Monthly Payments due on the preceding Due Date for the
Portfolio Mortgage Loans and Special Portfolio Mortgage Loans whether or not such Monthly Payments
were collected from the Mortgagor. Any amounts due but uncollected shall be funded by the Company
as a Monthly Advance.

(b) With respect to any Portfolio Mortgage Loan or Special Portfolio Mortgage Loan for which a
Monthly Advance was made in accordance with Section 6.03(a), the Company may reimburse itself for
its advances from Mortgagor collections that are subsequently deposited into the applicable
Custodial Funds Account.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

27 

(c) If the Company determines, in its reasonable judgment, that any uncollected payment due from a
Mortgagor that is due to be paid to the Owner in accordance with Section 6.02(c) would not be
recoverable from Liquidation Proceeds or other payments or recoveries (including Insurance Proceeds
or Condemnation Proceeds) on the related Portfolio Mortgage Loan or Special Portfolio Mortgage
Loan, then the Company shall not advance the amount considered to be nonrecoverable by the Company,
and that amount shall therefore not be remitted to the Owner until the Portfolio Mortgage Loan or
Special Portfolio Mortgage Loan is liquidated.

(d) With respect to any Portfolio Mortgage Loans or Special Portfolio Mortgage Loans
determined to be nonrecoverable and whose Monthly Payments are omitted from the scheduled monthly
remittance, the Company shall deliver an officer s certificate to the Owner setting forth the basis
of such determination.

Section 6.04.    Statements to the Owner  .

(a) With the exception of the P-185 (Report of Mortgage Accruals as of Date), which is to be
delivered daily, the reports listed on   Exhibit G   will be delivered to Owner, at to all
Mortgage Loans, within five (5) Business Days after the  cut-off  date specified in   Exhibit
G  . The forms of these reports are contained in, and such reports will be generated by, the
Company s EDP, and the Company shall use its best efforts to deliver such reports via electronic
means to the Owner or its designee. The Company shall provide the Owner separate reports for the
Portfolio Mortgage Loans, Special Portfolio Mortgage Loans, Warehouse Mortgage Loans and Special
Warehouse Mortgage Loans.

(b) The Company shall provide the Owner with such information concerning the Mortgage Loans as
is necessary for the Owner to prepare its federal income tax return as the Owner may reasonably
request from time to time; provided, however, that if such information is not required by any other
Transaction Agreement, or is not contained in a standard report produced by the Company s EDP, any
set-up costs incurred by the Company to provide such information shall be borne by the Owner.

Section 6.05.    Form of Payment; Interest on Late Payments.  

(a) All distributions and remittances made to the Owner pursuant to this Agreement shall be
made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Owner at a bank or other
entity having appropriate facilities therefor or, if the Owner shall have so notified the Company,
by check mailed to the address of the Owner provided for in the Purchase and Sale Agreement, or by
any other method agreed upon by both parties.

(b) Without limiting the Owner s rights set forth in Section 10.01 hereof, with respect to any
distribution or remittance received by the Owner on or after the    * * *    following the Business Day
on which such payment was due, the Company shall pay to the Owner    * * *   

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

28 

ARTICLE VII 

SERVICING COMPENSATION  

Section 7.01.    Servicing Compensation  .

(a) Subject to the following paragraph, as compensation for its services hereunder, the
Company shall be entitled to a Servicing Fee payable with respect to each Mortgage Loan. As to
each Mortgage Loan, the Servicing Fee shall be payable monthly from payments of interest on such
Mortgage Loan prior to the deposit of such payments into the applicable Custodial Funds Account,
shall accrue at the applicable Base Servicing Fee Rate, and shall be computed on the basis of the
same principal amount and for the same period respecting which such interest payment was computed.

(b) The Servicing Fee for each Mortgage Loan shall be payable solely from (i) the interest
portion of the related Monthly Payment (to the extent paid by the Mortgagor, but only if a full
interest payment is received), or (ii) from any payment of interest made with respect to the
Mortgage Loan from the proceeds of foreclosure or any judgment, writ of attachment or levy against
the Mortgagor or the Mortgagor s assets, or (iii) from funds paid in connection with any prepayment
in full, or (iv) from Insurance Proceeds or Liquidation Proceeds.

(c) As additional compensation hereunder, the Company may retain    * * *   .

(d) The Company s right to the Servicing Fee shall not be transferred in whole or in part
except in connection with any permitted transfer of all the Company s obligations under this
Agreement. The Company shall be required to pay all expenses incurred by it in connection with its
servicing activities hereunder and shall not be entitled to reimbursement therefor except as
specifically provided for herein.

Section 7.02.    Adjustments to Servicing Compensation.  

The parties acknowledge that the sale or assignment of Mortgage Loans by Owner to a Subsequent
Purchaser by means of a Transfer pursuant to Section 5.02 may require the Owner to arrange to pay a
Servicing Fee based on a rate that is different from the Base Servicing Fee Rate.

The Company agrees to purchase the right to receive the Final Servicing Fee Rate at the
applicable price set forth in the  Final Servicing Fee Rate  section of the Pricing Matrix. In the
event that the Owner chooses to sell the Company a Final Servicing Fee Rate that is less than the
Gross Yield Differential, then the difference between the Gross Yield Differential and the Final
Servicing Fee, Rate shall be considered Excess Servicing and shall be paid to the Owner on the
remittance date specified in any servicing agreement with a Subsequent Purchaser, to the extent

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

29 

it is received from the related Mortgagor. To the extent that the Gross Yield Differential is less
than the Final Servicing Fee Rate, Owner agrees to purchase such difference from the Company
pursuant to the  downward adjustment  section of the Pricing Matrix. All differences in the Base
Servicing Fee Rate and the Final Servicing Fee Rate shall be settled in connection with the Final
Purchase Price Adjustment pursuant to Section 7.03 of this Agreement.

Section 7.03.    Computation and Payment of the Final Purchase Price Adjustment.  

Within five (5) Business Days following any Transfer, Owner shall provide to Company a
computation of Final Purchase Price Adjustment relating to the Mortgage Loans that were the subject
of such Transfer. The Final Purchase Price Adjustment shall be computed on the basis of the
outstanding principal balance of the Mortgage Loan(s) as of the settlement date of the Transfer.
The Final Purchase Price Adjustment shall be paid by the owing party to the other party by wire
transfer of immediately available funds within five (5) Business Days following receipt of the
computation of Final Purchase Price Adjustment by the Company.

From time to time, Owner shall review all Mortgage Loans being serviced pursuant to this
Agreement and shall designate which of them are Portfolio Mortgage Loans and which of them are
Special Portfolio Mortgage Loans. Owner shall provide the Company with a list of all Portfolio
Mortgage Loans and Special Portfolio Mortgage Loans. Thereafter, Owner shall provide to Company a
computation of Final Purchase Price Adjustment relating to such Portfolio Mortgage Loans and
Special Portfolio Mortgage Loans. The Final Purchase Price Adjustment shall be computed on the
basis of the outstanding principal balance of the respective Portfolio Mortgage Loans and Special
Portfolio Mortgage Loans as of the end of the calendar month contemplated above. The Final
Purchase Price Adjustment shall be paid by the owing party to the other party by wire transfer of
immediately available funds within twenty (20) Business Days following the close of the applicable
calendar month. In the event that after designation as a Portfolio Mortgage Loan or Special
Portfolio Mortgage Loan, Owner transfers such Mortgage Loan in connection with a Transfer, the
parties shall determine another purchase price adjustment based upon the Pricing Matrix then in
effect. In these circumstances, only the pricing adjustments relating to the Final Servicing Fee
Rate and remittance cycle shall apply. Such purchase price adjustment shall be computed on the
basis of the outstanding principal balance of such Mortgage Loan(s) as of the settlement date of
the Transfer and paid by the owing party to the other party by wire transfer of immediately
available funds within ten (10) Business Days following the agreement on such adjustment.

ARTICLE VIII 

SOLICITATION   

Section 8.01.    Solicitation  

Without Owner s prior written consent, which may be withheld by the Owner in its sole
discretion, neither the Company nor any Affiliate shall solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any
Mortgagor to be solicited, for subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan or any investment or
financial services or products, including, without limitation, insurance and brokerage account
services. The Company (but not any of its Affiliates) may solicit Mortgagors for prepayment of

30 

the related Mortgage Loans, but only if (i) the Company has obtained the Owner s prior written
consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld, (ii) such solicitation is made in compliance with
Applicable Requirements and (iii) upon obtaining any positive responses to such solicitation, the
Company either (A) processes and closes the related Mortgage Loans pursuant to the Origination
Agreement (in the case of Mortgage Loans subject to the Origination Agreement) or (B) forwards such
responses to the Owner for Owner to process and close (in the case of Mortgage Loans not subject to
the Origination Agreement). Any Servicing Rights resulting from Mortgage Loans closed pursuant to
subclause (A) or subclause (B) of clause (iii) of the preceding sentence shall be sold to the
Company pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Neither the Owner nor any of its Affiliates
shall be prohibited from soliciting any Mortgagor or causing any Mortgagor to be solicited for any
product or service now offered (or hereafter offered) by the Owner or any Affiliate of the Owner,
other than for prepayment of any Mortgage Loan. The Company shall not prepare or disseminate, for
compensation or otherwise, any mailing lists relating to the Mortgagors, the Mortgage Loans, the
Servicing Rights, or otherwise, including any lists of Mortgagors, without the Owner s prior
written consent, which may be withheld by the Owner in its sole discretion. The parties hereto
nevertheless agree that (i) either the Company, the Owner or their Affiliates may from time to time
undertake promotions that are directed to either their own general customer base or to the general
public at large and that do not target Mortgagors directly, including, without limitation,
newspaper, radio and television advertisements and mass mailing or telephone solicitations and that
(ii) offers by the Company, the Owner or their Affiliates to refinance Mortgage Loans in response
to, or as a result of, contact initiated by the related Mortgagors or their representatives shall
not constitute solicitation.y

ARTICLE IX 

CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS    
  OF THE OWNER AND THE COMPANY  

Section 9.01.    Transaction Agreements  .

The obligations of the Owner and the Company are subject to the following: (a) the execution,
on or prior to February 29, 2000 (or such later date as to which the Owner and the Company may
hereafter agree), of the Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement, the Purchase and Sale
Agreement and the Subservicing Agreement and (b) as of the first Transfer Date, the Transaction
Agreements being in full force and effect and the Owner and the Company being in compliance in all
material respects with the covenants, conditions, and agreements applicable to them under the
Transaction Agreements.

ARTICLE X 

DEFAULT   

Section 10.01.    Events of Default  .

In case one or more of the following events (each, an  Event of Default ) shall occur and be
continuing, that is to say:

31 

(i) any failure by the Company to timely remit to the Owner any payment required to be
made under the terms of this Agreement; or

(ii) any material breach on the part of the Company of any other term, agreement,
covenant, representation or warranty in this Agreement that has not been cured after written
notice and a thirty (30) day curative period; or

(iii) there shall have occurred under any Transaction Agreement a default of the
Company; or

(iv) following entry against the Company of a decree or order of a court or agency or
supervisory authority having jurisdiction for the appointment of a trustee, conservator,
receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) for
the Company in any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, readjustment of debt, marshaling
of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings, or for the winding-up or liquidation of
the Company s affairs, if such decree or order has remained in force undischarged or
unstayed for a period of sixty (60) days, or

(v) upon consent by the Company to the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver,
liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) in, or
commencement of a voluntary case under, any federal or state bankruptcy insolvency,
readjustment of debt, marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings of or
relating to the Company or of or relating to all or substantially all of the Company s
property; or

(vi) upon the Company s (A) admitting in writing its inability to pay its debts
generally as they become due, (B) filing a petition to take advantage of any applicable
insolvency or reorganization statute, (C) making an assignment for the benefit of its
creditors or (D) voluntarily suspending payment of its obligations; or

(vii) the Company ceases to be eligible to sell mortgage loans to or service mortgage
loans for FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA or ceases to be a HUD-approved mortgagee; or

(viii) the Company (a) merges or consolidates with or into another Person, (b) sells
substantially all of its assets or (c) sells a controlling interest that results in a change
in control of the Company (other than any such change of control that results in the Company
being owned or controlled by an Affiliate of the Company, in existence on the date of this
Agreement); or

(ix) the Company fails to meet a  Service Standard  set forth in Section I of the
Operations Guide and the Company fails to remedy such deficiency within the 90 day period
set forth in Section 10.02(b);

then, and in each and every such case, so long as an Event of Default shall not have been remedied,
the Owner, by notice in writing to the Company, in addition to whatever rights the Owner may have
at law or in equity to damages, including injunctive relief an specific performance, may terminate
all the rights and obligations of the Company under (a) this

32 

Agreement, without paying the Company any termination fee, except as set forth in the following
paragraph, and (b) any other Transaction agreement, As to the Purchase and Sate Agreement. such
agreement maybe terminated as to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage
Loans, as more particularly defined therein.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Owner may provide the Company a written notice of its
intent to terminate this Agreement as a result of an Event of Default in Section 10.01(ix). Upon
receipt of such notice, the Owner and the Company shall, within fifteen (15) Business Days
thereafter, each retain an Arbitrator to determine the Fair Market Value for the Servicing Rights.
The parties shall cause their Arbitrators to make the Fair Market Value determination within twenty
(20) Business Days after being retained. Upon receipt of notice of the Fair Market Value from the
Arbitrators, the Owner may elect to terminate this Agreement and, upon such termination shall,
barring any other Event of Default, pay the Company the Fair Market Value for the Servicing Rights
of the Mortgage Loans owned by the Company as of such date.

On or after the receipt by the Company of written notice of termination of this Agreement, all
authority and power of the Company under this Agreement, whether with respect to the Mortgage Loans
or otherwise, shall pass to and be vested in the successor appointed pursuant to Section 13.01.
Upon written request from the Owner, the Company shall prepare. execute and deliver any and all
documents and other instruments, deliver to the successor all mortgage files, and do or accomplish
all other acts or things necessary or appropriate to effect the purposes of such notice of
termination, including the transfer and endorsement or assignment of the Mortgage Loans and related
documents, or otherwise, at the Company s sole expense. The Company agrees to cooperate with the
Owner and such successor in effecting the termination of the Company s responsibilities and rights
hereunder as provided above, including, without limitation, the transfer to such successor for
administration by it of all cash amounts which shall at the time be credited by the Company to the
Custodial Funds Accounts or the Escrow Accounts or thereafter received with respect to the Mortgage
Loans.

Section 10.02.    Failure of the Company to Maintain Service Standards/ Termination.  

(a) If, as evidenced by the monthly reports that the Company is required to furnish to the
Owner pursuant to Section II of the Operations Guide, any service standard set forth in Section I
of the Operations Guide is not satisfied (a  Service Deficiency ) during    * * *   , at Owner s
request the Company shall develop a plan describing the countermeasures and targets/goals the
Company will use to correct the Service Deficiency, and the Company shall present such plan to the
Owner within 15 days after the Owner has notified the Company of the Service Deficiency. Within 15
days after receiving the plan from the Owner, the Owner shall either (x) accept the plan or (y)
instruct the Company to modify the plan, and, in the case of clause (y), the Company shall make
such modifications. Unless the Owner agrees otherwise, the Company shall cure the Service
Deficiency within    * * *    (the  Level I Curative Period ) from the date on which the Owner has
accepted the plan or notified the Company of the modifications to be made to the plan.

(b) If the Company fails to correct any Service Deficiency by the end of the Level I Curative
Period, then, for a period    * * *    from the end of any Level I

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

33 

Curative Period, the Company shall pay the Owner liquidated damages of $   * * *   . The Company shall
pay such liquidated damages to the Owner by wire transfer of immediately available funds within    * * *   
after receipt of an invoice from the Owner. If a Service Deficiency has not been cured within
such    * * *   , the Owner may at its sole option, within    * * *    after receipt of the notice of the
Fair Market Value from the Arbitrators, terminate this Agreement and any or all other Transaction
Agreements.

(c) If a Service Deficiency has not been cured and the Owner elects not to terminate this
Agreement as provided for in Section 10.02(b), then within    * * *    of Owner s request, the Company
shall develop and present a plan to the Owner describing new countermeasures and targets/goals that
the Company will use to correct the Service Deficiency. Following receipt of the plan, the Company
and the Owner shall follow and be subject to the requirements of Section 10.02(a) and (b),
including but not limited to the liquidated damages and termination provisions.

(d) The remedies set forth in this Section 10.02 shall be in furtherance of, and not in
limitation of, Owner s remedies under this Agreement.

Section 10.03.    Waiver of Defaults  .

The Owner, by notice in writing to the Company, may waive any default by the Company in the
performance of its obligations hereunder and its consequences. Upon any such waiver of a past
default, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be
deemed to have been remedied for every purpose of this Agreement. No such waiver shall extend to
any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon except to the extent
expressly so waived.

Section 10.04.    Termination without Cause.  

(a) The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Company shall terminate without
cause: (i) upon the later of the final payment or other liquidation (or any advance with respect
thereto) of the last Mortgage Loan or the disposition of all REO Properties and the remittance of
all funds due hereunder, or (ii) by mutual consent of the Company and the Owner in writing.

(b) In connection with the sharing of Loan Information, the Purchase and Sale Agreement,
Subservicing Agreement and Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement allow Owner to terminate
any or all of the Transaction Agreements, including but not limited to this Agreement, if (i) in
Owner s judgment, the Company s interpretation of the purported change in the Applicable
Requirements is adverse to Owner, (ii) the Owner disagrees and (iii) the Owner and the Company are
unable to resolve such disagreement or if the parties agree that a change in the Applicable
Requirements restricts in any way the information the Company may share with the Owner.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Owner may provide the Company a written notice of its intent to
terminate this Agreement as a result of the foregoing. Upon receipt of such notice, the Owner and
the Company shall, within    * * *    thereafter, each to retain an Arbitrator to determine the Fair
Market Value for the Servicing Rights. The parties shall cause their

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

34 

Arbitrators to make the Fair Market Value determination within twenty (20) Business Days after
being retained. Upon receipt of the Fair Market Value from the Arbitrators, the Owner may elect to
terminate this Agreement upon at least ninety (90) days prior written notice and, upon such
termination shall, barring any other Event of Default, pay the Company the Fair Market Value for
the Servicing Rights of the Mortgage Loans owned by the Company as of such date.

Section 10.05.    Effect of Termination of Agreement.  

(a) In the event this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof, Article XII,
Sections 8.01, 10.02, 15.02, 15.04 and 15.16 and this Section 10.05 shall remain in effect after
such termination, and all provisions relating to the allocation of responsibility for costs
incurred by the Owner and/or the Company shall remain in effect with respect to acts occurring
before such termination.

(b) If the Owner terminates this Agreement and any or all of the other Transaction Agreements,
the remedies for liquidated damages set forth in Section 10.02 shall not apply as to any mortgage
loan that the Company continues to service.

ARTICLE XI 

ANNUAL CERTIFICATIONS   

Section 11.01.    Annual Statement as to Compliance.  

The Company will deliver to the Owner on or before March 1 of each year, beginning with March
1, 2001, a certificate signed by a senior vice president or more senior officer stating that (i) a
review of the activities of the Company during the preceding calendar year and of performance under
this Agreement has been made under such officer s supervision, and (ii) to the best of such
officer s knowledge, based on such review, the Company has fulfilled all of its obligations under
this Agreement throughout such year in all material respects, or, if there has been a default in
the fulfillment of any such obligation, specifying each such default known to such officer and the
nature and status thereof.

Section 11.02.    Annual Independent Certified Public Accountants  Servicing Reports.  

(a) On or before March 1 of each year, beginning with March 1, 2001, the Company at its
expense shall cause a nationally recognized firm of independent certified public accountants to
furnish a report to the Owner to the effect that (i) all Mortgage Loans serviced by the Company
were included in the total population of mortgage loans subject to selection for testing in such
firm s examination of certain documents and records, that such examination was conducted
substantially in compliance with the Uniform Single Attestation Program for Mortgage Bankers and
that such examination disclosed no items of material noncompliance with the provisions of the
Uniform Single Attestation Program for Mortgage Bankers, except for such items of noncompliance as
shall be set forth in such report and (ii) such accounting firm (or another nationally recognized
firm) has reviewed the operations and control procedures of the Company relative to the Company s
EDP and has determined that such system has been suitably designed to service the Mortgage Loans
pursuant to this Agreement,

35 

(b) Prior to execution of this Agreement, the Company at its expense shall have caused, and
annually thereafter within 90 days after the close of the Company s fiscal year, beginning with the
close of the 1999 fiscal year, the Company at its expense shall cause, a nationally recognized firm
of independent public accountants that is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants to furnish to the Owner audited financial statements of the Company for the then most
recently closed fiscal year, together with an opinion thereon of such public accountants that
either is unqualified or contains only such qualifications as are acceptable to the Owner.

(c) On or before March 1 of each year, beginning March 1, 2001, the Company, at its expense,
shall cause (i) the Company s EDP licensor (which on the date of this Agreement is ALLTEL
Information Services, Inc.) to furnish its Statement of Auditing Standards ( SAS ) 70 Report
(Report on the Processing of Transactions by Service Organizations) to the Owner and (ii) a
nationally recognized firm of independent certified public accountants to furnish to the Owner a
SAS 70 Report that has been prepared by such firm for the Company s mortgage operations.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the SAS 70 report described in clause (ii) of the preceding sentence
will not be required to be furnished if the financial statements of the Owner and the Company are
audited by the same firm of independent public accountants.

ARTICLE XII 

INDEMNIFICATION  

Section 12.01.    Indemnification of the Company.  

The Owner shall indemnify and hold the Company, its officers, directors, employees and agents
(the  Company Indemnified Parties ) harmless from, and will reimburse the Company Indemnified
Parties for, any and all Losses incurred by any of the Company Indemnified Parties to the extent
that such Losses result from, are caused by, or arise out of any one or more of the following:

(a) Any material misrepresentations made by the Owner in this Agreement or in any Schedule,
Exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto;

(b) Any material breach of any representations and warranties of the Owner or the
nonfulfillment of any term, covenant, condition, or obligation of the Owner set forth in this
Agreement or in any Schedule, statement, Exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto, or any
default or failure to perform by the Owner hereunder;

(c) Any liabilities or obligations, contingent or otherwise, of the Owner of any nature
whatsoever relating to the Owner s obligations under this Agreement, to the extent that any related
Loss to the Company is not increased by negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of
the Company;

(d) Owner s failure to service a Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan, as described in Section
2.03, in accordance with applicable law.

The indemnity provided in this Section 12.01 shall remain in full force and effect

36 

regardless of any investigation made by the Company or its representatives.

Section 12.02.    Indemnification of the Owner.   

The Company shall indemnify and hold the Owner, its officers, directors, employees and agents
(the  Owner Indemnified Parties ) harmless from, and will reimburse the Owner Indemnified Parties
for, any and all Losses incurred by any of the Owner Indemnified Parties to the extent that such
Losses result from, are caused by or arise out of any one or more of the following:

(a) Any material misrepresentations made by the Company in this Agreement, or in any schedule,
exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto;

(b) Any material breach of any of the representations and warranties of the Company or the
nonfulfillment of any term, covenant, condition or obligation of the Company set forth in this
Agreement or in any schedule, statement, exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto, or any
default or failure to perform by the Company hereunder;

(c) Any failure of the Company to comply with the terms of any Applicable Requirements in
connection with servicing the Mortgage Loans;

(d) Any liabilities or obligations, contingent or otherwise, of the Company of any nature
whatsoever relating to the Company s obligations under this Agreement, to the extent that any
related Loss to the Owner is not increased by negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the
part of the Owner; or

(e) Any non-compliance with the terms of the powers of attorney or Limited Authorized
Signatories or the use thereof that results in a Loss to the Owner.

The indemnity provided in this Section 12.02 shall remain in full force and effect regardless
of any investigation made by the Owner or its representatives.

Section 12.03.    Notice and Settlement of Claims.  

(a) In the event that either party to this Agreement becomes aware of any material fact giving
rise to any obligation of the other party under this Article XII, including, but not limited to,
any claim or any litigation brought by a third party which may give rise to any such obligation,
such party shall promptly, but in no event later than    * * *   , provide the other party with a
notice describing the same. Failure to provide a notice within such    * * *    period shall not
relieve such other party of its obligations under this Article XII, unless such failure materially
prejudices the rights or increases the liability of such other party, and then, such other party s
liability shall be reduced only by the amount that it actually has been damaged by such failure.

(b) The indemnifying party (the  Indemnifying Party ) may, at its own cost and expense, assume
defense of any claim, suit, action or proceeding, provided that the counsel is satisfactory to the
indemnified party (the  Indemnified Party ) in the exercise of its reasonable

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

37 

discretion. The party not controlling the defense or prosecution of any such claim, suit, action
or proceeding may participate at its own cost and expense.

(c) Neither the Indemnifying Party nor the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to settle,
compromise, decline to appeal, or otherwise dispose of any claim, suit, action or proceeding
without the consent of the other party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed).

(d) Following the discharge of the Indemnifying Party s obligations under this Article XII,
the Indemnified Party shall assign to the Indemnifying Party any and all related claims against
third parties. If the Indemnifying Party fails to discharge its obligations under this Article
XII, the Indemnified Party shall be entitled (but not obligated) to pursue (as the assignee of the
Indemnifying Party) any and all claims against third parties which the Indemnifying Party otherwise
would have the right to pursue, including, but not limited to, claims against loan correspondents.
Within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the Indemnified Party shall refund to the Indemnifying
Party the amounts of all recoveries the Indemnified Party received from third parties with respect
to any claim for which the Indemnified Party was reimbursed for its Losses.

(e) Following the receipt of written notice from the Indemnified Party of a demand for
indemnification, the Indemnifying Party shall seek to cure the problem giving rise to the demand,
if possible, without any actual or contingent liability of the Indemnified Party, and pay the
amount for which it is liable, or otherwise take the actions which it is required to take within
thirty (30) days or such lesser time as may be required by an Insurer or third-party claimant.

ARTICLE XIII 

SUCCESSOR TO THE COMPANY  

Section 13.01.    Successor to the Company.  

(a) Upon termination of the Company s responsibilities and duties under this Agreement, the
Owner shall (i) directly service the Mortgage Loans under this Agreement or (ii) appoint a
successor.

(b) The Owner may make such arrangements for the compensation of such successor out of
payments on Mortgage Loans as it and such successor shall agree. In the event that the Company s
duties, responsibilities and liabilities under this Agreement should be terminated, the Company
shall discharge such duties and responsibilities during the period from the date it acquires
knowledge of such termination until the effective date thereof with the same degree of diligence
and prudence which it is obligated to exercise under this Agreement, and shall take no action
whatsoever that might impair or prejudice the rights or financial condition of its successor. The
resignation or removal of the Company shall not relieve the Company of any representations ,
warranties, covenants or agreements made in connection herewith or affect the remedies available to
the Owner hereunder, it being understood and agreed that such provisions shall be applicable to the
Company notwithstanding any such resignation or termination of the Company, or the termination of
this Agreement.

38 

(c) Any termination or resignation of the Company or termination of this Agreement shall not
affect any claims that the Owner may have against the Company due to any failure of the Company to
comply with this Agreement prior to any such termination or resignation.

(d) The Company, in a timely and reasonable manner (but in any event no later than    * * *   
after the effective date of any termination or permitted resignation of the Company on termination
of this Agreement), shall deliver to the successor (i) the funds in the Custodial Pends Accounts
and Escrow Accounts and (ii) the mortgage files and related documents, statements and computer
files held by it hereunder, and the Company shall account for all funds. The Company shall execute
and deliver such instruments and do such other things all as may reasonably be required to more
fully and definitely vest and confirm in the successor all such rights, powers, duties,
responsibilities, obligations and liabilities of the Company. The successor shall make
arrangements as it may deem appropriate to reimburse the Company for amounts the Company actually
expended pursuant to this Agreement that the successor is entitled to retain hereunder and that
would otherwise have been reimbursable to the Company pursuant to this Agreement but for the
appointment of the Owner or new servicer.

ARTICLE XIV 

ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING  

Section 14.01.    Compliance  .

(a) The Company shall at all times undertake and perform the requirements set forth in Section
IV of the Operations Guide as the same may be amended from time to time (the  BSA Policies and
Procedures ). The Company shall comply with the BSA Policies and Procedures and shall take
reasonable steps to detect payments that are inconsistent with such policies and procedures. In
the event the Company retains the services of a third party vendor to process the receipt of funds
from Mortgagors (hereafter, a  Lock-Box Vendor ), The Company shall first obtain the Owner s
consent to the selection of such Lock-Box Vendor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Further, the Company shall provide the BSA Policies and Procedures to any such Lock-Box Vendor and
ensure that such Lock-Box Vendor complies with the same.

(b) The Company shall be responsible for assuring compliance by the Owner with the Owner s
obligations under the BSA by identifying and reporting possible money laundering and other illegal
activity to the extent set forth in the BSA Policies and Procedures.

(c) Prior to the first Transfer Date, the Company shall have: (i) appointed a suitable
officer of the Company to be responsible for compliance with the BSA Policies and Procedures; (ii)
caused such officer and any other appropriate persons to have participated in one or more training
sessions on anti-money laundering and bank secrecy act compliance which sessions will be provided
by the Owner or a third party vendor at Owner s expense; and (iii) implemented policies, procedures
and internal controls to undertake the BSA Policies and Procedures and shall have provided the
Owner with photocopies of internal memoranda and other documents of the Company setting forth such
policies, procedures and internal controls.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

39 

(d) Failure of the Company to comply with the terms of this Article XIV in all material respects,
including without limitation the failure of the Company to take any remedial action called for by
the Owner as described in subsection (f) below, shall constitute grounds for the Owner, in its sole
discretion, to terminate: (i) this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.01(ii) hereof; and (ii) any
other Transaction Agreement(s).

(e) The Company shall indemnify the Owner for any financial losses resulting from the
Company s failure to comply with the BSA Policies and Procedures.

(f) The Owner, upon reasonable notice, may audit and test the Company s compliance with the
provisions of the BSA Policies and Procedures. Any such audit or test may be conducted by the
Owner s internal auditors or other employees or by. an outside auditing firm. If the Owner
detects weaknesses in or exceptions to the Company s compliance with the BSA Policies and
Procedures, the Owner shall notify the Company of its findings, and the Company shall immediately
undertake the remedial action suggested by the Owner and shall report to the Owner on the action
taken. Failure on the part of the Company to take such remedial action within    * * *    after
receipt from the Owner of the notice described in the preceding sentence shall constitute grounds
for termination of this Agreement and any other Transaction Agreements as set forth in subsection
(d) above.

ARTICLE XV 

MISCELLANEOUS   

Section 15.01.    Supplementary Information.  

From time to time, the Owner shall furnish to the Company such information supplementary to
the information contained in the documents and schedules delivered pursuant hereto which is
reasonably available to the Owner as the Company may reasonably request in writing and/or which may
be necessary to enable the Company to file any reports or respond to Mortgagor inquiries in
connection with the Mortgage Loans so long as furnishing such information does not violate the
Applicable Requirements.

Section 15.02.    Access to Information: Confidentiality.  

(a) The Company shall, and shall cause the Company s representatives, including but not
limited to its counsel, accountants and other representatives, and the Company s Affiliates to,
hold in confidence and not disclose to any third party without the Owner s prior written consent,
all information relating to the Owner received by the Company, the Company s representatives and/or
the Company s Affiliates in connection with the transactions contemplated herein, other than
information (i) received by the Company, the Company s representatives or the Company s Affiliates
on a non-confidential basis from a third party having a right to make such disclosure; (ii) that is
or becomes generally available to the public (except as a result of a disclosure in violation of
this Agreement); or (iii) required to be disclosed by law or regulatory or judicial process.

(b) The Owner shall, and shall cause the Owner s representatives, including but not limited to
its counsel, accountants and other representatives, and the Owner s Affiliates to, hold

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

40 

in confidence and not disclose to any third party without the Company s prior written consent, all
information relating to the Company received by the Owner and/or the Owner s representatives in
connection with the transactions contemplated herein, other than information (i) received by the
Owner or the Owner s representatives on a non-confidential basis from a third party having a right
to make such disclosure; (ii) that is or becomes generally available to the public (except as a
result of a disclosure in violation of this Agreement); or (iii) is required to be disclosed by law
or regulatory or judicial process.

(c) The Company acknowledges that the Owner is licensed as a mortgage
lender/originator/servicer in numerous jurisdictions and that, pursuant to such licenses and
similar licenses, the Owner is requested from time to time to make available to various
governmental officials and examiners various loan level information, documents, and similar items
including, but not limited to, certain  mortgage loan servicing  information. If the Owner is
required to produce any such mortgage loan servicing information, the Company shall make all such
information available to the Owner in a timely manner at Owner s cost and expense, provided that
the Company s dissemination of such information does not violate the Applicable Requirements.

(d) This Section 15.02 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

Section 15.03.    Further Assurances  .

(a) The Owner and the Company shall cooperate in good faith to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement.

(b) In order for the parties hereto to perform their respective obligations hereunder, each
party shall furnish to the other party such reports, information or documentation supplementary to
the information contained in the documents and schedules delivered pursuant hereto and deliver such
reports, information or documentation as may reasonably be requested by such party and as are
reasonably normal and customary in the mortgage loan servicing industry.

Section 15.04.    Survival  .

Except as otherwise provided herein, all representations, warranties, covenants, indemnities
and other agreements of the parties to this Agreement set forth herein or in any exhibit, schedule
or other document or certificate delivered or to be delivered pursuant hereto shall survive each
applicable Transfer Date regarding the Mortgage Loans that are being serviced pursuant to this
Agreement.

Section 15.05.    Governmental Authorities; Laws and Severability.  

The terms and provisions of this Agreement are expressly made subject to applicable federal
and state statutes, laws, and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended from time to
time. Any rule, regulation or administrative policy of any government agency having jurisdiction
that relates to the servicing of mortgage loans shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, and
shall supersede the terms of this Agreement, unless such incorporation shall materially impair the
contemplated benefits to be received by the parties pursuant to this Agreement, in which event the
parties shall renegotiate the terms and conditions hereof to reflect a fair allocation of the
economic benefits contemplated hereby. In the event any provision of this

41 

Agreement is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of any of the above.
such provision shall be of no force or effect, and this Agreement shall continue as though such
superseded provision were not contained in this Agreement.

Section 15.06. Form of Payment to be Made. 

Unless otherwise provided herein or agreed to in writing by the parties, all payments
contemplated herein shall be made by wiring immediately available funds to the account designated
by the Owner or the Company, as applicable.

Section 15.07.    Assignability  .

Neither the Owner nor the Company shall assign this Agreement, or delegate any duty hereunder,
without the prior written consent of the other party. Notwithstanding the above prohibition, this
Agreement may be assigned by either party to such party s Affiliate upon thirty (30) days  prior
written notice to the other party hereto, provided the Affiliate is an Affiliate as of the date
hereof and as the ability to perform the obligations of the Company hereunder.

Section 15.08.    Certain Costs  .

Unless otherwise set forth in this Agreement, each party shall bear their respective costs in
fulfilling their responsibilities herein.

Section 15.09.    Notices  .

All notices, requests, demands and other communications that are required or permitted to be
given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given if delivered personally,
transmitted by facsimile (and telephonically confirmed), mailed by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, or sent by commercial overnight courier to the other party at the
following address:

If to the Company, to:

42 

or to such other address as the Company or the Owner shall have specified in writing to the
other.

Section 15.10.    Entire Agreement: Construction.  

The Transaction Agreements constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereof. No amendments, modifications, or supplements of this Agreement shall be
binding unless executed in writing by the parties hereto. Reference to sections, subsections,
schedules, or exhibits in this Agreement are to sections and subsections of, and schedules and
exhibits to, this Agreement. The schedules and exhibits are part of this Agreement. Accounting
terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The words  herein ,  hereby ,  hereunder  and other words of
similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision. This
Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation, (i) consents, waivers
and modifications that may hereafter be executed, (ii) documents received by any party at the
closing, and (iii) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter
furnished, may be reproduced by any photographic,

43 

photostatic, microfilm, micro-card, miniature photographic or other similar process. The parties
agree that any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the original itself in any
judicial or administrative proceeding, whether or not the original is in existence and whether or
not such reproduction was made by a party in the regular course of business, and that any
enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction shall likewise be admissible in
evidence.

Section 15.11.    Binding Effect  .

This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their
respective permitted successors and permitted assigns.

Section 15.12.    Headings; Plurals: Genders.  

Section and Article headings are for reference purposes only and shall not be deemed to have
any substantive effect. In construing the words of this Agreement, plural constructions will
include the singular, and singular constructions will include the plural. No significance will be
attached to whether a pronoun is masculine, feminine, or neuter.

Section 15.13.    Applicable Law  .

This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the substantive laws of
the state of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed in the state of New York
and the obligations, rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be determined in accordance
with such laws.

Section 15.14.    Counterparts  .

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which, taken together,
shall constitute one and the same Agreement. The parties hereto agree that the closing of this
transaction may occur with the execution of the Transaction Agreements by each party and the
exchange of signatures by telefax, with original, signed Transaction Agreements to follow by
overnight mail.

Section 15.15.    Waivers  

No term or provision of this Agreement may be waived or modified unless such waiver or
modification is in writing and signed by the party against whom such waiver or modification is
sought to be enforced. The waiver by either party hereto of a breach of any provision of this
Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other or subsequent breach.

Section 15.16.    Publicity  .

Except as required by applicable law, neither party hereto shall issue a press release or
similar announcement or communication relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated
herein using the other party s name without such other party s prior written consent.

44 

Section 15.17.    No Third Party Beneficiaries.  

Except as expressly provided herein, nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer any
right, remedy, obligation or liability upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their
respective successors and permitted assigns.

Section 15.18.    Attorney Fees, Costs. etc.   

If any action at law or in equity, including an action for declaratory relief, is brought to
enforce or interpret the provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to
recover reasonable attorney fees and court costs from the other party. Such fees may be set by the
court in the trial of such action or may be enforced in a separate action brought for that purpose.
Such fees shall be in addition to any other relief that may be awarded.

Section 15.19.    Merger or Consolidation of the Owner and the Company.  

(a) The Owner and the Company shall each keep in full effect, their respective existences,
rights and franchises as corporations in the states of their incorporation except as permitted
herein, and will obtain and preserve their respective qualifications to do business as foreign
entities in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is or shall be necessary to: (i) protect
the validity and enforceability of this Agreement, or of any of the Mortgage Loans; and/or (ii) to
perform their respective duties under this Agreement.

(b) Subject to the Owner s right to terminate this Agreement upon the occurrence of an event
described in Section 10.01(viii), any entity into which the Owner or the Company may be merged or
consolidated, or any entity resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the
Owner or the Company shall be a party, or any entity succeeding to the business of the Owner or the
Company, shall be the successor of the Owner or the Company hereunder, without the execution of
filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to
the contrary notwithstanding; provided, however, that the successor or surviving entity shall be an
institution whose business is the origination or servicing of mortgage loans, unless otherwise
consented to by the Company or the Owner, as applicable, and shall be qualified to service mortgage
loans on behalf of FNMA.

45 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION have
caused this Portfolio Servicing Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto
duly authorized as of the date first written above.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Robert J. Smith 

Name:

Robert J. Smith 

Title:

Senior Vice President 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Robert E. Groody 

Name:

Robert E. Groody 

Title:

Senior Vice President 

EXECUTION COPY 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 1 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

January 2, 2001 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 1

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 1, dated as of January 2, 2001 (this   Agreement  ), by and
between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer
Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION
d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall
Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated
as of January 28, 2000 (the   Servicing Agreement  ), a copy of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit 

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Portfolio Servicing Agreement, dated as of January
28, 2000 (the   Portfolio Agreement  ), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Loan Sub-Servicing Agreement, dated as of January
28, 2000 (the   Sub-Servicing Agreement  ), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant have entered into a Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement, a
Trademark Use Agreement, an Origination Assistance Agreement and a Loan Purchase and Sale
Agreement, each dated as of December 15, 2000 and each with an effective date as of the date hereof
(collectively, the   New Agreements   and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant, having entered into the New Agreements, wishes to amend the
Servicing Agreement, the Portfolio Agreement and the Sub-Servicing Agreement in order to properly
reflect the current relationships between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Servicing Agreement . The Servicing Agreement is hereby
amended as follows:

(a)  Section 1.01 . Section 1.01 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Additional
Collateral  and replacing it with the following:    Additional
Collateral   means, with respect to any Mortgage 100 Loan or Parent
Power Mortgage Loan, the marketable securities subject to a security
interest pursuant to the related Mortgage 100 Pledge Agreement or the
Parent Power Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account.  

ii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Cendant Mortgage
Loan  and replacing it with the following:    Cendant Mortgage
Loan   means a 

Mortgage Loan originated by Purchaser pursuant to either (i) the 1997
Origination Agreement or (ii) the 2000 Origination Agreement.  

iii. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof  to the end of the definition of
 MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement.  

iv. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Origination
Agreement  and replacing it with the following:    Origination
Agreements   means the 1997 Origination Agreement and the 2000
Origination Agreement.  

v. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    1997
Origination Agreement   means the Mortgage Loan Purchase and Services
Agreement dated as of September 24, 1997 between Seller and PHH
Mortgage Services Corporation, as the same may be amended from time to
time in accordance with the terms thereof.  

vi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    2000
Origination Agreement   means the Origination Assistance Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000 between the Seller and the Purchaser, as
the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms
thereof.  

vii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Permission
Agreement  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Permission Agreement   means (i) from January 28, 2000 through
January 1, 2001, the Permission Agreement dated as of January 28, 2000
between Seller and Purchaser and (ii) on and after January 2, 2001, the
Trademark Use Agreement.  

viii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Trademark Use Agreement   means the Trademark Use Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000, with an effective date as of January 2,
2001, between Seller and Purchaser.  

ix. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence of the definition
of  Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan  and replacing it with the following
sentence:    Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan   means (a) any Mortgage
Loan purchased by Seller through its correspondent lending network, (b)
on or prior to January 1, 2001, a construction loan that has been
converted to a permanent Mortgage Loan, (c) on and after January 2,
2001, a construction loan that has been converted to a
PrimeFirst    Mortgage Loan (as contemplated by the 2000
Origination Agreement), or (d) any other mortgage loan that the parties
may mutually agree to designate.  

2 

x. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   PrimeFirst  Mortgage Loan   means an adjustable rate loan
offered by MLCC in which the monthly debt repayments thereunder for
approximately the first 120 months of the term thereof are interest
only.  

xi. 
       
     Replacing the word  Losses  each time it
appears in clause (a) of the definition of  Recourse Obligation  with
the word  losses.  

xii. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof  to the end of the definition of
 Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement.  

xiii. 
       
     Replacing the words  permitted successors and
assigns  in the definition of  Seller  with the words  successors and
permitted assigns.  

xiv. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence of the definition
of  Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans  and replacing it with the following
sentence:    Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans  , means Mortgage
Loans originated after March 10, 2000; provided, however, that on and
after January 2, 2001,  Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans  shall mean only
PrimeFirst    Mortgage Loans originated pursuant to the 2000
Origination Agreement.  

xv. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Transaction
Agreements  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Transaction Agreements  , means this Agreement, the Permission
Agreement, the MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement, the 2000 Origination
Agreement, the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of December
15, 2000 between Purchaser and Seller, and the Equity
Access    and Omega Subservicing Agreement dated as of January
2, 2001 between Purchaser and Seller; provided, however, that the term
Transaction Agreements  shall not include any agreements which have
been terminated in accordance with their respective terms.  

xvi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Account
Number   means an account number or similar form of access number
relating to a Borrower s Mortgage Loan or other financial product or
service with or from Seller other than any internal identifying number
assigned by Purchaser to the Mortgage Loan.  

xvii. 
       
     In the definition of  Applicable
Requirements,  (A) adding  collectively, (1)  between the words
 reference  and  with  in the first line thereof, (B) replacing the
first parenthetical in clause (b) with the following words  (including
laws, statutes, rules, regulations, administrative interpretations and
ordinances as well as any of the foregoing requirements applicable to
Seller by virtue 

3 

of its state licenses, qualifications and exemptions and by virtue of
its being a subsidiary of Merrill Lynch Bank USA) , (C) deleting the
word  and  immediately prior to clause (f), and (D) adding the
following to the end of such definition:  and (g) any applicable
MLCC or Merrill Lynch Bank USA internal policies and procedures, as
revised from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, and
(2) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended.  

xviii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Borrower Information   means
any personally identifiable information or records in any form
(written, electronic, or otherwise) relating to a Borrower, including,
but not limited to, a Borrower s name, address, telephone number, loan
number, loan payment history, delinquency status, insurance carrier or
payment information, tax amount or payment information; the fact that
the Borrower has a relationship with Seller; and any other personally
identifiable information.  

xix. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Law  
means any United States federal, state or local statute, law,
ordinance, regulation, rule, code, order, requirement, judgment,
decree, writ, injunction or rule of law (including common law).  

xx. 
       
     Adding the following definitions:    MLCC
Data   means any data, databases, reports and records relating to
financial products from or services with MLCC, including, without
limitation, Account Numbers, Borrower Information, and data derived
therefrom.  

xxi. 
       
     Adding the following definitions:    MLCC
Services   shall mean collectively, the Origination Services and
Purchaser s obligations under the Servicing Rights.  

xxii. 
       
     Adding  (including the MLCC Data with respect
thereto)  between the words  loan  and  other  in the second line of
the definition of  Mortgage Loan.  

xxiii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Origination Services   shall
mean the loan origination services to be performed by Purchaser for and
on behalf of Seller as detailed in the Origination Agreement.  

xxiv. 
       
     xxiv. Adding the following definition:
   Personnel   of a Party shall mean such Party, its employees,
subcontractors, consultants, representatives and agents.  

xxv. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Software   means the proprietary computer software programs, and
related Software Documentation, 

4 

listed on Exhibits A, B and C of the Licensing Agreement, excluding
any Third Party Software that may be embedded therein.  

xxvi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Software Documentation   means, with respect to any Software,
the operating instructions and user, installation, set-up,
configuration, training and support manuals for the Software or any
part thereof, whether prepared by Seller or any Third Party, in any
form or medium whatsoever.  

xxvii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Termination Assistance
Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.26.  

xxviii. 
       
     xxviii. Adding the following definition:    Termination Assistance
Services   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.23.  

xxix. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Third
Party Software   means any software or program and related Software
Documentation incorporated into or used separately or in connection
with the Software, that is owned by a Third Party and licensed to
Seller.  

xxx. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Borrower   means the borrower with respect to any Mortgage
Loan.  

(b)  Section 2.01(a) . The second sentence of Section 2.01(a) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Replacing the word  For  at the beginning of
such sentence with the words  With respect to.  

ii. 
       
     Inserting the word  such  between the words
 all  and  Mortgage  in clause (i) of such sentence. 

(c)  Section 3.01(a) . The second sentence of Section 3.01(a) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by replacing the last four words of such sentence ( any such Mortgage
Loan ) with the words  any Mortgage Loan described in the preceding clause (i). 

(d)  Section 3.02(a) . The second sentence of Section 3.02(a) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by deleting the word  Initial  in the first line thereof.

(e)  Section 3.02(b) . The first sentence of Section 3.02(b) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by deleting the word  Initial  in the fourth line thereof

(f)  Section 4.01(e) . Section 4.01(e) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the last two sentences thereof in
their entirety. 

5 

ii. 
       
     The second sentence is amended by (A) replacing
the words  Prospectively, in the event that either party to this
Agreement believes, in good faith,  with the words  The parties
acknowledge,  and (B) deleting the words  , then such party shall
provide written notice to the other of the purported change in the
Applicable Requirements.  

iii. 
       
     The third sentence is amended by replacing the
words  Thereafter, the  with the word  The  and replacing the words
 the purported  with the word  this.  

(g)  Section 4.03 . Section 4.03 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     In paragraph (c), replacing the word  Losses 
each time it appears with the word  losses.  

ii. 
       
     In paragraph (d), inserting the words  During
the MLCC Interim Servicing Period,  at the very beginning of such
paragraph. 

iii. 
       
     In paragraph (e), inserting the words  , during
the MLCC Interim Servicing Period ,  between the words  that  and
 Seller  in the first line thereof. 

(h)  Section 4.06(b) . Section 4.06(b) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting  (i)  before the beginning of the first sentence thereof.

(i)  Section 4.07 . Section 4.07 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the words  (or Purchaser on behalf of Seller)  between the words  Seller  and
 and  in the first line of the second paragraph thereof.

(j)  Section 4.09(a) . Section 4.09(a) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the word  such  (i) between the words  each  and  Transfer  in the second sentence
thereof and (ii) between the words  each  and  applicable  in the third sentence thereof.

(k)  Section 4.15 . Section 4.15 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     In paragraph (a), replacing the words  except
a  with  other than any  in the first parenthetical in the first
sentence thereof. 

ii. 
       
     In paragraph (a), inserting the words  (other
than any Cendant Mortgage Loan)  between the word  Loan  and  within 
in the third sentence thereof. 

iii. 
       
     In paragraph (a), inserting the word  such 
between the words  any  and  Mortgage  in the fifth sentence thereof. 

6 

iv. 
       
     In paragraph (a), inserting the word  such 
between the words  each  and  original  in the last sentence thereof. 

v. 
       
     In paragraph (c), inserting the words  (other
than any Cendant Mortgage Loan)  between the words  Loan  and  Seller 
in the first sentence thereof. 

vi. 
       
     Adding at the end of such section the following
text as subparagraph (g):  (g) For the avoidance of doubt, the parties
hereto acknowledge and agree (i) that any obligations set forth in this
Section 4.15 shall not apply with respect to any Mortgage Loan which is
also a Cendant Mortgage Loan and (ii) that the payment holdback
provisions of subparagraph (f) of this Section 4.15 shall not apply
with respect to any Cendant Mortgage Loan.  

(l)  New Sections 4.36   4.40 . The Servicing Agreement is amended by adding the
following new sections, to be numbered 4.36 through 4.40:

Section 4.36  Work Policy . Personnel of either Party working on the premises of the other
Party (excluding in the case of Purchaser, premises of Seller leased to Purchaser), and all other
Personnel required by Law or government rules or regulations, shall comply with the safety,
security and other regulations of the other Party generally applicable to its outside contractors
and Personnel particular to each work location, including, where applicable, internal security
department fingerprinting, photographing and screening processes. Personnel of a Party, when
deemed appropriate by the other Party, will be issued visitor identification cards. Each such card
will be surrendered by upon demand by the other Party or upon termination of this Agreement or
completion of the relevant MLCC Services. Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, Personnel of
each Party will observe the working hours, working rules, and holiday schedules of the other Party
while working on the other Party s premises (excluding in the case of Purchaser, premises of Seller
leased to Purchaser). Each Party shall advise the other Party immediately in the event that any
Personnel with security access to any premises of the other Party (i) is no longer assigned to
perform MLCC Services, or (ii) is no longer employed by such Party.

Section 4.37  Use of Hardware and Software . In the event that Purchaser shall be
performing MLCC Services on behalf of Seller and any third party utilizing common hardware and/or
Software, Seller shall have the right, on reasonable notice to Purchaser and at Seller s sole cost
and expense, to audit such hardware and Software to ensure segregation of MLCC Data from third
party data adequate to prevent unauthorized disclosure of MLCC Data to third parties, and to ensure
the security of MLCC Data in accordance with normal industry practices, provided that such audit
shall not disrupt Purchaser s ability to perform the MLCC Services.

7 

Section 4.38.  Technical Architecture Standards . On notice thereof, Purchaser shall comply
with all reasonable Seller information management technical architecture standards related to
interfacing with Seller systems as identified and amended by Seller from time to time.

Section 4.39.  Compliance with Policies . Purchaser shall, upon notice thereof by Seller,
comply with all of Seller s commercially reasonable policies and procedures regarding security and
safeguarding of MLCC Data.

Section 4.40.  Continuation of MLCC Services . Purchaser acknowledges that the provision of
MLCC Services is critical to the business and operations of Seller. In the event of a fee dispute
between Seller and Purchaser pursuant to which either Party in good faith believes it is entitled
to withhold payment of the disputed amount or for which either Party in good faith believes payment
is due, each Party shall continue to perform its obligations under the Ancillary Agreements,
including continuing to pay undisputed amounts. Neither Party shall not under any circumstances
suspend or disrupt, or seek any injunctive or other equitable relief for the purpose of suspending
or disrupting, directly or indirectly, provision of the services to the other Party under the
Ancillary Agreements or the normal business operations of the other Party.

(m)  New Article IV-A . The Servicing Agreement is amended by adding the
following text as new Article IV-A, to be labeled  Mutual Representations: 

Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the other Party as follows:

Section 4A.01.  Kickbacks . No employee, agent or representative of the other Party has
been offered, shall be offered, has received, or shall receive, directly or indirectly, from such
Party, any gratuities, merchandise, cash, services benefit, fee, commission, dividend, gift, or
other inducements or consideration of any kind in connection with this Agreement.

Section 4A.02.  Government Officials . No person employed by such Party in connection with
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement is an official of the government of any
foreign country, or of any agency thereof, and no part of any moneys or consideration paid to such
Party hereunder shall accrue for the benefit of any such official.

Section 4A.03.  No Relation . No individual who will receive specific compensation from
such Party as a result of the execution of this Agreement is related to any public official or
official of any issuer of municipal securities. For purposes of this Section, the term  official
of an issuer of municipal securities  means any person who is an incumbent, candidate or successful
candidate (a) for elective office of any issuer which office is directly or indirectly responsible
for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer
for municipal securities business by such issuer, or (b) for any elective office of a state or of
any political subdivision, which office has authority to appoint any official(s) of such issuer.
The term  related  applies when a person is related by blood or marriage. 

(n)  Section 5.09(d)(iii) . Section 5.09(d)(iii) of the Servicing Agreement is
amended by inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator  and
 or  in the second sentence thereof.

8 

(o)  Section 5.09(h) . Section 5.09(h) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Inserting the words  (if not the Purchaser) 
between the words  Originator  and  and  in the first sentence thereof. 

ii. 
       
     Inserting the words  (other than Purchaser) 
between the words  Originator  and  was  in the last sentence thereof. 

(p)  Section 5.09(n) . Section 5.09(n) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator  and  and/or  in
the first sentence thereof.

(q)  Section 5.09(t) . Section 5.09(t) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the words  None of the Mortgage Loans are subject to bi-weekly payment plans, and
the  in second to last sentence of such section and inserting the word  The  in lieu
thereof.

(r)  Section 5.09(y) . Section 5.09(y) of the Servicing agreement is amended by
inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator  and  or  in the
fourth line of the first sentence thereof.

(s)  Section 5.09(gg) . Section 5.09(gg) of the Servicing Agreement is amended
by inserting the words  which is not a Cendant Mortgage Loan  between the words  Loan  and
 Seller  in the first line thereof.

(t)  Section 5.17 . Section 5.17 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the words  (unless the Purchaser was the Originator)  between the words
 Originators  and  or  in the third line thereof.

(u)  Section 5.18 . Section 5.18 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text of such section and replacing it with the following:  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, no representation or warranty is made
by the Seller at any time with respect to any Cendant Mortgage Loan to the extent such
representation or warranty relates to any act or omission of Purchaser in connection with
the origination of such Cendant Mortgage Loan. 

(v)  Reserved. 

(w)  Section 8.06 . Section 8.06 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the following after the last word in such section:  and except as set forth in
Section 5.18. 

(x)  Section 9A.01 . Section 9A.01(d) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
(i) deleting the words  grounds for Seller, in its sole discretion, to terminate (i) this
Agreement pursuant to Section 11.23(vii) and (ii) any other Transaction Agreement(s)  and
inserting the words  a Service Deficiency for purposes of Section 11.25  in lieu thereof and
(ii) deleting the last sentence of paragraph (f) in its entirety.

9 

(y)  Section 10.01(f) . Section 10.01(f) of the Servicing Agreement is amended
by adding the words  (other than with respect to any Cendant Mortgage Loan)  between the
words  Note  and  to.  .

(z)  Section 10.02(a)(ii) . Section 10.02(a)(ii) of the Servicing Agreement is
amended by inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator  and
 or  in the third line of the first sentence thereof.

(aa)  Section 11.02(a) . Section 11.02(a) of the Servicing Agreement is amended
by adding the words  (including outside accountants)  between the words  accountants  and
 and  in clause (ii) of the first sentence thereof.

(bb)  Section 11.05 . Section 11.05 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence thereof and
replacing it with the following:  Without Seller s prior written
consent, which consent may be withheld by Seller in its sole
discretion, neither Purchaser nor any Affiliate of Purchaser shall
solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be solicited, for
subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate
financing arranged under the Equity Access program) or any product or
service whatsoever, including, without limitation, any investment or
financial services or products, insurance products or services and
brokerage account services.  

ii. 
       
     Inserting the word  respective  between the
words  their  and  Affiliates  in each of clauses (i) and (ii) of the
last sentence of such section. 

(cc)  Section 11.15 . Section 11.15 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text in such section and inserting the following:  This Agreement shall be
governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York applicable
to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State. All actions and proceedings
arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined exclusively in
any New York State court or any federal court sitting in the County of New York. The
parties hereto expressly consent and agree to the exclusive jurisdiction of any such court
or venue therein. 

(dd)  Section 11.22 . Section 11.22 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text contained in such section and inserting the following:  This Agreement
shall automatically expire and terminate upon the earlier of (i) December 31, 2010 and (ii)
the date upon which the 2000 Origination Agreement is terminated in accordance with the
terms thereof. If the 2000 Origination Agreement shall have been extended for an extension
term, this Agreement shall be automatically extended for the same extension term without any
action by the parties hereto. 

(ee)  Section 11.23 . Section 11.23 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

10 

i. 
       
     Deleting the text contained in each of clauses
(ii), (iv), (v) and (vi) in the first sentence of such section, and in
each such clause, inserting the words  intentionally omitted  in lieu
thereof. 

ii. 
       
     Adding the following text at the end thereof:
 Without limitation of the foregoing, if (A) a PHH Competitor Change of
Control (as defined in the 2000 Origination Agreement) shall have
occurred, then at any time after Seller shall have received notice of
such PHH Competitor Change of Control, Seller may, by giving written
notice thereof to Purchaser, terminate this Agreement as of a future
date specified in such notice of termination; or (B) a PHH Change of
Control (as defined in the 2000 Origination Agreement) (other than a
PHH Competitor Change of Control) shall have occurred, then at any time
within 30 days after the two year anniversary of such PHH Change of
Control, Seller may, by giving written notice thereof to Purchaser,
terminate this Agreement as of a future date specified in such notice
of termination.  

(ff)  Section 11.24 . Section 11.24 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text contained in such section in its entirety and inserting the following in
lieu thereof:  In the event of a default (that remains uncured after the expiration of the
applicable cure period, if any) under any of (i) the Origination Assistance Agreement, (ii)
the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, (iii) the Trademark Use Agreement, and/or (iv) the
MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement, the non-defaulting party may, at its option, terminate
this Agreement. 

(gg)  Section 11.25 . Section 11.25 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the words  terminate this Agreement
and any or all other Transaction Agreements  at the end of paragraph
(b) and inserting  require Purchaser to solicit bids for a subservicer
as provided in paragraph (d) below  in lieu thereof. 

ii. 
       
     Deleting the words  terminate this Agreement as
provided for in Section 11.25(b)  in the first line of paragraph (c)
and inserting  solicit bids for a subservicer as provided in paragraph
(d) below  and deleting the words  and termination  in the last
sentence of such paragraph.  

iii. 
       
     Adding the following text as new paragraph (d): 

(d) In the event that Seller shall have the right to require Purchaser to solicit bids for a
Subservicer as provided in (b) above, then Purchaser, upon Seller s written demand, shall proceed
as follows:

(i) Purchaser shall prepare a request for proposal ( RFP ) for a Subservicer to assume
Purchaser s obligations relating to the Servicing Rights. Purchaser shall submit

11 

such RFP to Seller for review within    * * *    of Seller s written demand that Purchaser
solicit bids for a Subservicer. Purchaser shall incorporate Seller s reasonably requested
revisions to such RFP within    * * *    of Purchaser s receipt of Seller s requested revisions.

(ii) Purchaser shall submit the final RFP to no less than three (3) residential
Mortgage Loan servicers reasonably chosen by Seller.

(iii) Purchaser shall select the bid requested by Seller.

(iv) Purchaser shall pay the costs of the entity chosen by Seller as the Subservicer to
assume Purchaser s obligations relating to the Servicing Rights. If, however, the bid
selected by Seller is the highest bid and such bid exceeds the second highest bid by    * *
*   , then Seller shall be responsible for the difference between the selected bid and    * * *   
of the second highest bid. 

iv. 
       
     Relabeling current paragraph (d) as paragraph
(e) and deleting the words  and the other Transaction Agreements  in
such paragraph. 

(hh)  New Section 11.27 . The Servicing Agreement is hereby amended by adding
the following new Section 11.27:

Section 11.27  Termination Assistance . (a) Upon expiration or termination of all or part
of the MLCC Services for any reason, Purchaser shall for a period of one (1) year (the  Termination
Assistance Period ), upon Seller s request and at Seller s expense, continue to provide the MLCC
Services that were provided prior thereto ( Termination Assistance Services ). In providing
Termination Assistance Services, Purchaser shall provide such reasonable cooperation and technical
assistance to Seller, or to a third-party service provider designated by Seller, as required to
facilitate the transfer of the affected MLCC Services to Seller or such third-party service
provider. The rights of Seller under this Section shall be without prejudice to the Parties 
rights to pursue legal remedies for breach of this Agreement, either for breaches prior to
termination or during the period this Agreement is continued in force post-termination.
Termination Assistance Services shall be provided for the same fees as prior to termination, and
Purchaser shall use commercially reasonable efforts to perform the MLCC Services at the same
service levels as prior to termination. MLCC hereby agrees to continue to provide the services or
meet its obligations contemplated to be provided by it under this Agreement during the Termination
Assistance Period in order to assist Purchaser in complying with this
 Section 11.26(a). 

(b) If and to the extent requested by Seller, whether prior to, upon, or following any termination
of this Agreement, Purchaser shall reasonably assist Seller in developing a plan which shall
specify the tasks to be performed by the Parties in connection with the Termination Assistance
Services and the schedule for the performance of such tasks. The transition plan shall include
descriptions of the MLCC Services, service levels, fees, documentation and access requirements that
will promote an orderly transition of the MLCC Services.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

12 

(c) For a period of six (6) months following the Termination Assistance Period, Purchaser shall:
(i) answer all reasonable and pertinent verbal or written questions from Seller regarding the MLCC
Services on an  as needed  basis: and (ii) deliver to Seller any remaining Seller-owned reports
and documentation still in Purchaser s possession. 

(ii) The Servicing Agreement is amended by replacing, throughout the entire agreement,
any reference to  the Origination Agreement  or any other similar reference to  Origination
Agreement  that connotes the singular form of such definition, with  any Origination
Agreement  or  the Origination Agreements  or  the applicable Origination Agreement  or any
other similar reference that connotes the plural form of such definition, as the context may
require.

SECTION 2.  Amendments to the Portfolio Agreement . The Portfolio Agreement is hereby
amended as follows:

(a)  Section 1.01 . Section 1.01 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Additional
Collateral  and replacing it with the following:    Additional
Collateral   means with respect to any Mortgage 100 Loan or and
Parent Power Mortgage Loan, the marketable securities subject to a
security interest pursuant to the related Mortgage 100 Pledge Agreement
or the Parent Power Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities
Account.  

ii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Cendant Mortgage
Loan  and replacing it with the following:    Cendant Mortgage Loan 
 means a Mortgage Loan originated by Purchaser pursuant to either
(i) the 1997 Origination Agreement or (ii) the 2000 Origination
Agreement.  

iii. 
       
     In the definition of  Mortgage Loan,  inserting
the words  (or any Person on behalf of Owner)  between the words
 Owner  and  originates  in the third line thereof. 

iv. 
       
     In the definition of  Mortgage Loan Schedule, 
inserting the words  (or any Person on behalf of Owner)  between the
words  Owner  and  originates  in the fourth line thereof. 

v. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Origination
Agreement  and replacing it with the following:    Origination
Agreements   means the 1997 Origination Agreement and the 2000
Origination Agreement.  

vi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    1997
Origination Agreement   means the Mortgage Loan Purchase and Services
Agreement dated as of September 24, 1997 between Seller and PHH
Mortgage Services Corporation, as the same may be amended from time to
time in accordance with the terms thereof.  

13 

vii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    2000
Origination Agreement   means the Origination Assistance Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000 between the Seller and the Purchaser, as
the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms
thereof.  

viii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Permission
Agreement  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Permission Agreement   means (i) from January 28, 2000 through
January 1, 2001, the Permission Agreement dated as of January 28, 2000
between Seller and Purchaser and (ii) on and after January 2, 2001, the
Trademark Use Agreement.  

ix. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Trademark Use Agreement   means the Trademark Use Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000 between Seller and Purchaser.  

x. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Purchase and Sale
Agreement  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Purchase and Sale Agreements   means the First Purchase and Sale
Agreement and the Second Purchase and Sale Agreement.  

xi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    First
Purchase and Sale Agreement   means the Servicing Rights Purchase and
Sale Agreement dated as of January 28, 2000, between the Owner, as
seller, and the Company, as purchaser.  

xii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Second
Purchase and Sale Agreement   means the Servicing Rights Purchase and
Sale Agreement dated as of December 15, 2000, between the Owner, as
seller, and the Company, as purchaser.  

xiii. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof  to the end of the definition of
   Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement  .  

xiv. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof  to the end of the definition of
   Subservicing Agreement  .  

xv. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Transaction
Agreements  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Transaction Agreements   means this Agreement, the Permission
Agreement, the First Purchae and Sale Agreement, the 2000 Origination
Agreement, the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of December
15, 2000 between Purchaser and Seller, and the Equity
Access    and Omega Subservicing Agreement dated as of January
2, 2001 between 

14 

Purchaser and Seller;  provided ,  however , that the
term  Transaction Agreements  shall not include any agreements which
have been terminated in accordance with their respective terms.  

xvi. 
       
     In the definition of  Applicable Requirements, 
(A) adding  collectively, (1)  between the words  reference  and  with 
in the first line thereof, (B) replacing the first parenthetical in
clause (b) with the following words  (including laws, statutes, rules,
regulations, administrative interpretations and ordinances as well as
any of the foregoing requirements applicable to Company by virtue of
its state licenses, qualifications and exemptions and by virtue of its
being a subsidiary of Merrill Lynch Bank USA) , (C) deleting the word
 and  immediately prior to clause (f), and (D) adding the following to
the end of such definition:  and (g) any applicable MLCC or Merrill
Lynch Bank USA internal policies and procedures, as revised from time
to time in accordance with the terms hereof, and (2) the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended.  

(b)  Section 2.01(i) . Section 2.01(i) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
adding the following sentence at the end of such paragraph:  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Company acknowledges and agrees that the Owner maintains agreements with document
custodians selected by it from time to time, pursuant to which such custodians maintain
Mortgage Loan files on behalf of the Owner. The Company agrees to cooperate with such
custodians and request from such custodians the documents and Mortgage Files required by the
Company which are maintained by such custodians (with a copy of such request sent to the
Owner).

(c)  Section 2.04(a) . Section 2.04(a) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
adding the words  (including outside accountants)  between the words  accountants  and
 supervisory  in the first line thereof.

(d)  Reserved. 

(e)  Section 5.02(a)(i) . Section 5.02(a)(i) of the Portfolio Agreement is
amended by inserting the words  any custodian that maintains documents or Mortgage Files on
behalf of the Owner,  between the words  Owner,  and  any  in the first line thereof.

(f)  Section 5.02(a)(ii) . Section 5.02(a)(ii) of the Portfolio Agreement is
amended by inserting after the end of the first sentence the following words:  The Company
shall, as the Owner may request, either (A) enter into such agreements with the Owner, in
which case the Owner s rights and obligations thereunder shall be freely assignable and
delegable to the Subsequent Purchaser without any further action or consent by the Company,
or (B) enter into such agreement directly with the Subsequent Purchaser. 

15 

(g)  Section 5.02(a)(iii) . Section 5.02(a)(iii) of the Portfolio Agreement is
amended by inserting the words  for the benefit of the Subsequent Purchaser  after the words
 Purchase and Sale Agreement  in the second line thereof.

(h)  Section 5.02(a) . Section 5.02(a) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
replacing the period at the end of subclause (vii) with a semicolon and adding the word
 and  after such inserted semicolon.

(i)  Section 8.01 . Section 8.01 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence thereof and
replacing it with the following:  Without Owner s prior written
consent, which consent may be withheld by Owner in its sole discretion,
neither Company nor any Affiliate of Company shall solicit any
Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be solicited, for subordinate
financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate financing
arranged under the Equity Access program) or any product or service
whatsoever, including, without limitation, any investment or financial
services or products, insurance products or services and brokerage
account services.  

ii. 
       
     Inserting the word  respective  between the
words  their  and  Affiliates  in each of clauses (i) and (ii) of the
last sentence of such section. 

(j)  Section 10.01 . Section 10.01 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
deleting the text contained in clause (b) at the end of the first paragraph of such section
and inserting in lieu thereof the words  as to the First Purchase and Sale Agreement, such
agreement may be terminated as to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk
Mortgage Loans, as more particularly defined therein. 

(k)  Section 10.02(b) . Section 10.02(b) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended
by deleting the words  any or all other Transaction Agreements  at the end of such section,
and inserting the following in lieu thereof:  the First Purchase and Sale Agreement as to
the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, as more
particularly defined therein. 

(l)  Section 10.02(d) . Section 10.02(d) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended
by deleting the words  and the other Transaction Agreements. 

(m)  Section 15.02(a) . Section 15.02(a) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended
by adding the words  (including outside accountants)  between the words  accountants  and
 and  in the second line thereof.

(n)  Section 15.13 . Section 15.13 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
deleting the text of such section in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
 This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State.
All

16 

actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and
determined exclusively in any New York State court or any federal court sitting in the
County of New York. The parties hereto expressly consent and agree to the exclusive
jurisdiction of any such court or venue therein. 

(o) The Portfolio Agreement is amended by replacing, throughout the entire agreement,
any reference to  the Origination Agreement  or any other similar reference to  Origination
Agreement  that connotes the singular form of such definition, with  any Origination
Agreement  or  the Origination Agreements  or  the applicable Origination Agreement  or any
other similar reference that connotes the plural form of such definition, as the context may
require.

(p) The Portfolio Agreement is amended by replacing, throughout the entire agreement
(except as set forth in Section 2(j) above), any reference to  the Purchase and Sale
Agreement  or any other similar reference to  Purchase and Sale Agreement  that connotes the
singular form of such definition, with  any Purchase and Sale Agreement  or  the Purchase
and Sale Agreements  or  the applicable Purchase and Sale Agreement  or any other similar
reference that connotes the plural form of such definition, as the context may require.

SECTION 3.  Amendments to the Sub-Servicing Agreement . The Sub-Servicing Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:

(a)  Section 7.01 . Section 7.01 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence thereof and
replacing it with the following:  Without Servicer s prior written
consent, which consent may be withheld by Servicer in its sole
discretion, neither Subservicer nor any Affiliate of Subservicer shall
solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be solicited, for
subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate
financing arranged under the Equity Access program) or any product or
service whatsoever, including, without limitation, any investment or
financial services or products, insurance products or services and
brokerage account services.  

ii. 
       
     Inserting the word  respective  between the
words  their  and  Affiliates  in each of clauses (i) and (ii) of the
last sentence of such section. 

(b)  Section 14.01 . Section 14.01 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended by
(i) deleting the text  any other Transaction Agreement. (As  contained in the first
sentence of such section and inserting in lieu thereof the word  as  and (ii) deleting the
 )  at the end of the first sentence, as such first sentence has been amended by clause (i)
of this Section 3(b).

17 

(c)  Section 14.02(b) . Section 14.02(b) of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is
amended by deleting the words  any or all other Transaction Agreements  at the end of such
section, and inserting the following in lieu thereof:  the First Purchase and Sale
Agreement as to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, as
more particularly defined therein. 

(d)  Section 14.02(d) . Section 14.02(d) of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is
amended by deleting the words  and the other Transaction Agreements. 

(e)  Section 17.14 . Section 17.14 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text of such section in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
 This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State.
All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and
determined exclusively in any New York State court or any federal court sitting in the
County of New York. The parties hereto expressly consent and agree to the exclusive
jurisdiction of any such court or venue therein. 

(f)  Section 1.01 . Section 1.01 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended by
making the following changes in the definition of  Applicable Requirements : (A) adding
 collectively, (1)  between the words  reference  and  with  in the first line thereof, (B)
replacing the first parenthetical in clause (b) with the following words  (including laws,
statutes, rules, regulations, administrative interpretations and ordinances as well as any
of the foregoing requirements applicable to Servicer by virtue of its state licenses,
qualifications and exemptions and by virtue of its being a subsidiary of Merrill Lynch Bank
USA) , (C) deleting the word  and  immediately prior to clause (f), and (D) adding the
following to the end of such definition:  and (g) any applicable MLCC or Merrill Lynch Bank
USA internal policies and procedures, as revised from time to time in accordance with the
terms hereof, and (2) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended. 

SECTION 4.  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be
performed in that State. All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement
shall be heard and determined exclusively in any New York State court or any federal court sitting
in the County of New York. The parties hereto expressly consent and agree to the exclusive
jurisdiction of any such court or venue therein.

SECTION 5.  Waiver of Jury Trial . Each of the parties hereto hereby waives to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law any right it may have to a trial by jury with respect to
any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement or
any Terminated Agreement.

SECTION 6.  Specific Performance . The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage
would occur in the event any provision of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the
terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to specific performance of the terms hereof, in
addition to any other remedy at law or in equity.

18 

SECTION 7.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Agreement are
included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 8.  Miscellaneous . This Agreement may be modified or amended only be a writing
signed by the parties hereto. This Agreement may be executed (including by facsimile transmission)
in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of
which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together
shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 9.  Fees and Expenses . All costs and expenses incurred in connection with this
Agreement, the termination of the Terminated Agreements or the transactions contemplated hereby and
thereby shall be paid by the party incurring such expenses.

SECTION 10.  Ratification.  Except as amended hereby, the Servicing Agreement and the
Portfolio Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and are hereby ratified
and confirmed.

SECTION 11.  Benefit and Binding Effect . The terms of this Agreement shall be
effective as of the date hereof, upon signature of counterparts by all parties, and shall be
binding upon and inure to the benefit of MLCC and Cendant and their respective successors and
permitted assigns.

19 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the
date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   

   /s/
Kevin O Hanlon

Name:   

Title:   

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the
date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Joseph Sutter

Name:   
     Joseph Sutter  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

Execution Copy 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 2 
(amending the Portfolio Servicing Agreement 
dated as of January 28, 2000) 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

October 27, 2004 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 2 
(amending the Portfolio Servicing Agreement 
dated as of January 28, 2000) 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 2 (amending the Portfolio Servicing Agreement dated as of January 28,
2000) , dated as of October 27, 2004 (this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL
LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive
East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH
Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt.
Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Portfolio Servicing Agreement, dated as of January
28, 2000, as amended by the Amendment Agreement No. 1, dated as of January 2, 2001 (as amended, the
  Portfolio Agreement   and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant wishes to further amend the Portfolio Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment to the Portfolio Agreement . Section 10.01 of the Portfolio
Agreement is hereby amended by:

(a) Deleting the text contained in clause (viii) of the first sentence of such section
and inserting the words  intentionally omitted  in lieu thereof.

(b) Adding the following text as the second full paragraph of such section:  Without
limitation of the foregoing, if (A) a PHH Competitor Change of Control (as defined in the
2000 Origination Agreement) shall have occurred, then at any time after the Owner shall have
received notice of such PHH Competitor Change of Control, the Owner may, by giving written
notice thereof to the Company, terminate all the rights and obligations of the Company under
(a) this Agreement as of a future date specified in such notice of termination, without
paying the Company any termination fee, except as set forth in the following paragraph, and
(b) as to the First Purchase and Sale Agreement, such agreement may be terminated as to the
Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, as more particularly
defined therein; or (B) a PHH Change of Control (as defined in the 2000 Origination
Agreement) (other than a PHH Competitor Change of Control) shall have occurred, then at any
time within 30 days after the two year anniversary of such PHH Change of Control, the Owner
may, by giving written notice thereof to the Company, terminate all the rights and
obligations of the Company under (a) this Agreement as of a future date specified in such
notice of termination, without paying the Company any termination fee, except as set forth
in the following paragraph, and (b) as to the First Purchase and Sale Agreement, such

agreement may be terminated as to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk
Mortgage Loans, as more particularly defined therein. 

(c) The third paragraph (after adding the new second paragraph as provided above) of
such Section 10.1 is amended by deleting the first sentence of such third paragraph and
inserting in lieu thereof:  If Owner intends to terminate this Agreement due to a PHH
Competitor Change of Control, a PHH Change of Control, or an Event of Default, as the case
may be, the Owner shall provide written notice of such intention to Company within the
applicable time frame stated herein. 

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Portfolio Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Portfolio Agreement.

2

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
     Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
     Chairman and President  

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Gregory A. Gentek

Name:   
     Gregory A. Gentek  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

</EX-10.68>

<EX-10.69>
 12
 y26027exv10w69.htm
 EX-10.69: LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

EX-10.69 

Exhibit 10.69 

EXECUTION COPY 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

and 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

December 15, 2000 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

i 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  
(continued)

Page  

Section 24.

Further Assurances; Survival

17 

Section 25.

Cooperation

17 

Exhibit A   Change of Control List 

Exhibit B   Servicing Provisions 

Exhibit C    Reserved  

Exhibit D   Price Adjustments 

ii 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 

THIS LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (the   Purchase Agreement  ) effective as of
January 2, 2001 (the   Effective Date  ) is entered into by and between Merrill Lynch Credit
Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware
(  MLCC  ), and Cendant Mortgage Corporation d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey (  PHH  ) (each, individually, a
  Party   and collectively, the   Parties  ).

W I T N E S S E T H :

WHEREAS, MLCC is duly licensed and authorized to originate Mortgage Loans:

WHEREAS, the Parties have entered into that certain Origination Assistance Agreement dated as
of the Effective Date (the   Origination Agreement  ), under the terms of which PHH shall
assist MLCC in the origination of Mortgage Loans;

WHEREAS, PHH is a mortgage banking company duly licensed and authorized to originate, process,
and purchase Mortgage Loans and desires to provide those services to MLCC as more particularly set
forth in the Origination Agreement and in this Agreement;

WHEREAS, MLCC desires to originate Mortgage Loans with the assistance of PHH for sale into the
secondary mortgage market; and

WHEREAS, PHH is willing to purchase from MLCC Mortgage Loans that have been closed by PHH, on
behalf of MLCC, and funded by MLCC and that meet PHH purchase criteria;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties, in consideration of the terms, conditions, promises and
agreements set forth in this Purchase Agreement, agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Definitions . (a)  Certain Defined Terms . As used in this
Agreement, the following Terms shall have the following meanings:

Additional Collateral   shall mean, with respect to any Mortgage 100 sm  Loan
or any Parent Power    Mortgage Loan, the Securities Account and the financial assets held
therein subject to a security interest pursuant to the related Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge
Agreement or Parent Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account,
respectively.

Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan   shall mean each Mortgage Loan that is either a
Mortgage 100 sm  Loan or Parent Power    Mortgage Loan as to which Additional
Collateral was required to be provided at the closing thereof.

Affiliate   or   affiliate   shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other
Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with,
such Person. (Capitalized terms derived from the word Affiliate (e.g.   Affiliated  ) shall
have the corresponding meanings). For the purposes of this definition,  control,   controlled by, 
and

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

under common control with  means the direct or indirect possession of ordinary voting powers to
elect a majority of the board of directors or comparable body of a Person.

Alternative Construction Loan   shall mean a Construction Loan which converts to a
PrimeFirst    Loan.

Alternative Loans   shall mean Alternative Construction Loans, Equity Access Loans and
PrimeFirst    Loans.

Applicable Requirements   shall mean and include, as of the time of reference,
collectively, (A) with respect to the Mortgage Loans, all of the following: (i) all contractual
obligations, including without limitation those contractual obligations contained in this
Agreement, in any agreement with any insurer or in the applicable Mortgage Loan; (ii) all
applicable federal, state and local legal and regulatory requirements (including statutes, rules,
regulations, administrative interpretations and ordinances as well as any of the foregoing
applicable to MLCC by virtue of its state licenses, qualifications and exemptions and by virtue of
its being a subsidiary of MLBUSA); (iii) all other applicable requirements and guidelines of each
investor, insurer, governmental agency, board, commission, instrumentality and other governmental
body or office having jurisdiction; (iv) all other applicable judicial and administrative
judgments, orders, stipulations, awards, writs and injunctions; (v) the reasonable and customary
mortgage origination practices of prudent mortgage lending institutions which make mortgage loans
of the same type as the Mortgage Loans in the jurisdictions in which the related Mortgaged
Properties are located; (vi) any Mortgage Lending Laws; and (vii) any applicable MLCC and MLBUSA
internal policies and procedures, as revised from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof,
and (B) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended.

Approval Letter   shall mean a correspondence issued to an applicant for a Mortgage
Loan, in MLCC s name by PHH, approving an application for a Mortgage Loan. PHH shall use PHH s
standard form of approval letter subject only to such changes as the Parties shall mutually agree
upon from time to time.

Assignment   shall mean a document, sufficient under the laws of the jurisdiction
where the related Mortgaged Property is located, to reflect all transfers of the Mortgage
Instrument and the Mortgage Note.

Business Day   shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which
either (i) commercial banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the City of New York
or the State of Utah or (ii) the New York Stock Exchange is required or authorized by law to be
closed.

Concession(s)   shall mean, with respect to a Mortgage Loan, (i) an MLCC approved
deviation from the applicable rate sheet regarding interest rate, origination fee and/or discount
points; or (ii) a waiver by MLCC of certain fees associated with a Mortgage Loan, including, but
not limited to, application fee, appraisal fee, or other promotional fees, which causes an addition
to or subtraction from the Purchase Price.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

2 

Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loan   shall mean a Mortgage Loan the terms of
which are in conformity with the standards, including loan amount and documentation requirements,
of Fannie Mae (also referred to as   FNMA  ) or Freddie Mac (also referred to as
  FHLMC  ) under one of their respective home mortgage purchase programs (such standards
shall be referred to hereafter respectively as the   FNMA Guidelines   and the   FHLMC
Guidelines  ) and any other Mortgage Loan except for Construction Loans, PrimeFirst Loans.
Equity Access Loans, Jumbo/Non-Conforming Loans, or Government Loans that otherwise meet MLCC
Underwriting Guidelines.

Construction Loan   shall mean a Mortgage Loan for the purpose of financing the
construction (or alteration) of a one- to four-family residence, which Mortgage Loan is funded in
installments.

Continuing Directors   means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board
of Directors of either Cendant or PHH, as the case may be, who:

(1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date hereof; or

(2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a
majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such nomination
or election.

Customers   shall mean the current and prospective customers of MLCC.

Direct Competitor  shall mean any Person listed on Exhibit A hereto.

EDP   means the electronic data processing system used by MLCC and PER, which are
licensees of ALLTEL Information Services, Inc.

Equity Access    Agreement   shall mean the revolving line of credit
agreement entered into between MLCC and the Guarantor under any Parent Power    Guaranty
Agreement for Real Estate pursuant to which a line of credit may be drawn upon by MLCC to fund the
payment by such guarantor of a loss specified in such Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement
for Real Estate.

Equity Access Loans   shall mean a Mortgage Loan in the form of a line of credit
secured by a Mortgage Instrument, currently referred to by MLCC as  Equity Access Loans  and
offered under a program currently referred to by MLCC as the Equity Access Program.

Equity Access    Mortgage   means the mortgage, deed of trust or other
security instrument (including all amendments and supplements thereto) made by the Guarantor under
any Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate to secure its obligations
thereunder and under the related Equity Access    Agreement.

Financial Services Firm   shall mean any Person that offers, directly or indirectly,
any financial services or financial product.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

3 

Government Loan   is a Mortgage Loan that qualifies for mortgage insurance by the FHA
or that qualifies for a loan guaranty by the Veterans  Administration.

Guarantor   means any individual who has guaranteed payment of a Mortgage Loan
pursuant to a Parent Power Agreement.

Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loan   is a conventional Mortgage Loan the original
principal balance of which exceeds the maximum loan amount for Conforming Conventional Mortgage
Loans specified by FNMA or FHLMC or otherwise does not meet the FNMA or FHLMC Guidelines.

LIBOR Interest Rate   shall mean the interest rate equal to 30-day LIBOR based upon a
360-day year.

MLBUSA   means Merrill Lynch Bank USA.

Mortgage 100 sm  Loan   means a Mortgage Loan secured by Additional
Collateral having a value, as of the date of origination of such Mortgage Loan, of at least equal
to the related Original Additional Collateral Requirement.

Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement   means, with respect to each Mortgage
100 sm  Loan, the Pledge Agreement for Securities Account between the related Mortgagor
and MLCC pursuant to which such Mortgagor granted a security interest in the related Securities and
other financial assets held therein.

Mortgage File   shall mean the file containing (a) the Mortgage or other deed of
trust, security deed, mortgage, or any other instrument which constitutes a first lien on the
Mortgaged Property securing payment by a Mortgagor of a Mortgage Note, (b) the Mortgage Note, (c)
the Assignments, if any, and (d) the credit and closing packages, custodial documents, applicable
servicing documents, escrow documents and all other files, records and documents necessary to
establish the eligibility of the Mortgage Loans for purchase.

Mortgage Instrument   means any deed of trust, security deed, mortgage, or any other
instrument which constitutes a first lien or second lien on the improved Mortgaged Property
securing payment by a mortgagor of a Mortgage Note.

Mortgage Loan   means a domestic, consumer purpose, one-to-four family residential
purchase money or refinance closed-end mortgage loan or open-end mortgage loan. The term  Mortgage
Loan  as used herein shall include, but not be limited to, Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loans,
Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loans, PrimeFirst    Loans, Construction Loans, and Equity
Access Loans.

Mortgage Loan Documents   means the Mortgage Instruments, Mortgage Notes and
Assignments.

Mortgage Loan Pricing   means the interest rates, discount points, loan origination
fees, loan application fee, closing costs and other associated cost elements for a Mortgage Loan.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

4 

Mortgage Loan Types   means the various types of Mortgage Loans offered pursuant to
this Agreement.

Mortgage Note   means the mortgage note, deed of trust note, security deed note or
other form of promissory note executed by a mortgagor and secured by a Mortgage Instrument
evidencing the indebtedness of the mortgagor under a Mortgage Loan.

Mortgaged Property ,  means the collateral given to secure the repayment of a Mortgage
Loan.

Original Additional Collateral Requirement   shall mean, with respect to any
Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan, generally 30 percent of the original principal balance of such
Mortgage Loan or such lesser percentage thereof as is specified by MLCC in connection with the
origination of such Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan.

Origination Agreement   means the Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of the
date hereof, by and between MLCC and PHH, as the same may be amended from time to time in
accordance with the terms thereof.

Origination Services   shall mean the loan origination services to be performed by PHH
for and on behalf of MLCC as detailed in the Origination Agreement.

Parent Power    Agreement   means, with respect to each Parent Power   
Mortgage Loan, a Parent Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account or
a Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate.

Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate   means, with respect to
certain Parent Power    Mortgage Loans, an agreement between MLCC and a Guarantor on
behalf of the Mortgagor under such Parent Power    Mortgage Loan pursuant to which such
Guarantor guarantees the payment of certain losses under such Parent Power    Mortgage
Loan, authorizes MLCC to draw on the related Equity Access Agreement to fund such guaranty, and has
secured such Equity Access Agreement with an Equity Access Mortgage secured by a lien on
residential real estate of the Guarantor.

Parent Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account  
means, with respect to certain Parent Power    Mortgage Loans, an agreement between MLCC
and a guarantor on behalf of the Mortgagor under such Parent Power    Mortgage Loan
pursuant to which such guarantor guarantees the payment of certain losses under such Parent
Power    Mortgage Loan and has granted a security interest to MLCC in certain marketable
securities to collateralize such guaranty.

Parent Power    Mortgage Loan   shall mean a Mortgage Loan that is supported
by a Parent Power    Agreement.

Person   means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
joint venture, trust, or unincorporated organization, or a federal, state, city, municipal, or
foreign government, or an agency or political subdivision thereof.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

5 

PHH Change of Control   means the occurrence of any of the following:

(1) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, or by way of merger or
consolidation, in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the
assets of Cendant Corporation ( Cendant ) or PHH (or any successor entity to either thereof) to any
 person    as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, or

(2) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of Cendant or PHH;

(3) the consummation of any transaction, including, without limitation, any merger or
consolidation, the result of which is that any  person,  as defined above, becomes the beneficial
owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of either Cendant or PHH; or

(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of Cendant are
not Continuing Directors.

PHH Competitor Change of Control   means a PHH Change of Control to a Direct
Competitor.

Piggyback Equity Access Loan   means a junior lien Equity Access Loan that is closed
contemporaneously with a first lien Mortgage Loan originated pursuant to the terms and provisions
of the Origination Agreement.

Pipeline Loan   shall mean various potential Mortgage Loans (which are to be further
identified in the Letter Agreement) which are in one of various stages of loan origination,
approval and processing at MLCC, but which, as of the Effective Date, shall not have been closed
and funded.

Pledge Agreement   means any Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement or Parent
Power    Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account related to an Additional
Collateral Mortgage Loan.

Portfolio Servicing Agreement   means the Portfolio Servicing Agreement, dated as of
January 28, 2000, between MLCC and PHH, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance
with the terms thereof.

PrimeFirst    Loans   means adjustable rate loans offered by MLCC in which
the monthly repayments thereunder for approximately the first 120 months of the term thereof are
interest only.

Program   shall mean the origination of Mortgage Loans for customers under the
Origination Agreement on a private label basis.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

6 

Securities Account   shall mean, with respect to any Additional Collateral Mortgage
Loans, the account, together with the financial assets held therein, that are the subject of the
related Pledge Agreement.

Servicing Agreement   means collectively (i) the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale
Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2000, between MLCC and PHH, as amended, and (ii) the Servicing
Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between MLCC and PHH.

Servicing Provisions   means those policies, procedures and requirements pertaining to
the servicing of Mortgage Loans, as set forth in detail on Exhibit B hereto.

Standard Equity Access Loan   means an Equity Access loan that is not a Piggyback
Equity Access Loan.

Surety Bond   means the limited purpose Surety Bond, dated February 28, 1996, issued
by the Surety Bond Issuer in favor of MLCC.

Surety Bond Issuer   means Ambac Assurance Corporation (f/k/a AMBAC Indemnity
Corporation) or any successor thereto.

Trademark Use Agreement   means the Trademark Use Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof, between MLCC and PHH, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the
terms thereof.

Definitions . The following terms have the meanings set forth in the Section set forth
below:

Definition 
       
     Location 

Aggregate Pipeline Loan Purchase Price

2(c) 

AMBAC Statement

3(b) 

Bankrupt Party

12 

Effective Date

Preamble 

Extension Term

12 

Indemnitees

11(a) 

Initial Termination Date

12 

Letter Agreement

2(c) 

MLCC

Preamble 

MLCC Account

2(b) 

Mortgage

3 

Mortgage Note

2(b) 

Origination Agreement

Recitals 

Party/Parties

Preamble 

PHH

Preamble 

PHH Loans

2(a) 

Purchase Agreement

Preamble 

Purchase Price

2(b) 

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

7 

Servicing Agreement

Recitals 

Servicing Rights

2(a) 

(b)  Interpretation . (i) The headings contained in this Agreement or in any Exhibit
hereto are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement. All Exhibits annexed hereto or referred to herein are hereby
incorporated in and made part of this Agreement as if set forth herein. Any capitalized terms used
in any Exhibit but not otherwise defined therein shall have the meaning as defined in this
Agreement.

(ii) In the event that an ambiguity or a question of intent or interpretation arises, this
Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties and no presumption or burden of
proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions
of this Agreement.

(iii) The definitions of the terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms
of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the
corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words  include,   includes,  and
 including  shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase  without limitation.  The word  will 
shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word  shall.  Unless the context
requires otherwise, (a) any definition of, or reference to any agreement, instrument or other
document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as
from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions or such
amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person
shall also be construed to mean the Person s successors and permitted assigns, (c) the words
 herein,   hereof  and  hereunder,  and words of similar impact, shall be construed to refer to
this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, and (d) all references
herein to Articles, Sections or Exhibits shall be construed to refer to Articles, Sections or
Exhibits of this Agreement.

SECTION 1A.  Effectiveness Upon Closing . Notwithstanding the fact that this Agreement
shall have been executed prior to the Effective Date, no provision contained herein, including,
without limitation, the survival provision contained in Section 24, shall become effective until
the Closing Date (as defined in the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000, by and
between PHH and MLCC).

In the event that the Closing shall not occur, this Agreement will have no effect whatsoever,
as if it had never been executed by the Parties, and the Parties will have no rights or obligations
under this Agreement.

SECTION 2.  Purchase and Sale of PHH Loans . (a) Except as otherwise provided herein,
PHH agrees to purchase from MLCC, and MLCC agrees to sell to PHH, all right, title and interest in
and to all Mortgage Loans that have been originated in accordance with and under the terms of the
Origination Agreement, other than any Alternative Loan (  PHH Loans  ), including the right
to service such PHH Loans, collect the servicing fee on such PHH Loans, and collect any income
related thereto (  Servicing Rights  ), subject to the respective representations, warranties
and covenants of the Parties under this Purchase Agreement,

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

8 

including the obligation of PHH to service such PHH Loans in accordance with the Servicing
Provisions. PHH shall have no obligation to purchase, and MLCC shall have no obligation to sell,
any Alternative Loans hereunder. PHH covenants and agrees that in exercising and performing all
acts necessary and incident to the Servicing Rights, it will do so in accordance with the Servicing
Provisions.

(b) PHH shall purchase all PHH Loans from MLCC by wiring the Purchase Price for each PHH Loan
in immediately available funds to an account designated by MLCC (the   MLCC Account  ) no
later than   * * *   following the day on which a PHH Loan is funded by MLCC pursuant to the
Origination Agreement. The   Purchase Price   for each PHH Loan shall be equal to   * * *  
such PHH Loan pursuant to the terms of the note executed in connection with the PHH Loan (sometimes
referred to hereafter as the   Mortgage Note  ) from the date the PHH Loan funds were
disbursed by MLCC up to but not including the day PHH wires the Purchase Price to MLCC.

(c) By no later than five (5) Business Days after the Effective Date, PHH shall purchase the
Pipeline Loans from MLCC by wiring the   Aggregate Pipeline Loan Purchase Price   (as such
term is defined in the Letter Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000, executed by PHH and MLCC,
the   Letter Agreement  ) in immediately available funds to the MLCC Account.

(d) Without relieving PHH of any of its obligations hereunder or MLCC waiving its termination
rights set forth in Section 12, in the event that PHH does not purchase any PHH Loan in accordance
with the terms of Section 2, MLCC shall not be required to sell such PHH Loan (including Servicing
Rights with respect thereto) to PHH hereunder and may sell or otherwise transfer such PHH Loan
(including Servicing Rights with respect thereto) to a third party or retain such PHH Loan for its
own account. The failure of PHH to purchase any PHH Loan in accordance with this paragraph (d)
shall not entitle PHH to the benefit of any cure period specified in Section 12 of this Purchase
Agreement with respect to such PHH Loans.

SECTION 3.  Assignment of PHH Loans . (a) When MLCC receives the Purchase Price from
PHH for a particular PHH Loan, PHH shall, at its sole cost and expense and on behalf of MLCC, and
MLCC hereby authorizes PHH to, on its behalf, endorse the related Mortgage Note and assign the
related security instrument (sometimes referred to hereafter as the   Mortgage  ) to PHH, or
a secondary market investor specified by PHH, as soon as reasonably possible, and shall in similar
manner execute all such other documents necessary to make PHH the mortgagee or other secured party
of record. Any recording fees or similar expenses due and payable on account of the assignments
contemplated in this section shall be paid by PHH. To the extent MLCC shall have in its possession
any original PHH Loan documents at the time of the assignment of the PHH Loan to PHH, MLCC shall
thereupon deliver the original of same to PHH.

(b) On the closing date of each Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan, MLCC shall cause to be
delivered to PHH: (i) an assignment of MLCC s interest under the Surety Bond with respect to such
Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan sold on such date; and (ii) a certificate

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

9 

of the Surety Bond Issuer confirming the insurance of such Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan sold
on such date pursuant to the provisions of the Surety Bond. On a quarterly basis, MLCC shall
submit to PHH a statement (an   AMBAC Statement  ) specifying the amounts of premiums paid by
MLCC to AMBAC with respect to the Surety Bond for all Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans sold to
PHH during the prior quarterly period. Each AMBAC Statement shall include documentation evidencing
the amounts invoiced to PHH. Upon receipt of each AMBAC Statement, PHH shall, within   * * *  , pay
to MLCC an amount equal to the aggregate of all amounts invoiced on the respective AMBAC Statement.
From time to time. PHH may make reasonable requests from MLCC with respect to Additional
Collateral Mortgage Loans to the extent that such information is necessary in relation to the
subsequent sale of such Mortgage Loan, and MLCC hereby agrees to comply with such reasonable
requests, to the extent such compliance does not violate the Applicable Requirements.

SECTION 4.  Reporting . PHH shall provide MLCC on a monthly basis with the reports that
are required to be provided by PHH to MLCC as of the Effective Date pursuant to the Mortgage Loan
Purchase and Services Agreement, dated as of September 24, 1997, as amended, between MLCC and PHH
and as may otherwise be agreed to in writing by the Parties.

SECTION 5.  Sale of Mortgage Loans to Third Parties . MLCC retains the right, at its
sole option and discretion, to sell to a third party any Alternative Loan. For each such
Alternative Loan, the transfer of servicing rights shall be governed by the terms and conditions of
the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2000, as amended, by and
between PHH and MLCC, and PHH shall service such Alternative Loans pursuant to the terms of the
Portfolio Servicing Agreement.

SECTION 6.  Representations and Warranties of MLCC as to PHH Loans . MLCC represents
and warrants to PHH that at the time it executes this Purchase Agreement and at the time it sells
each PHH Loan to PHH in accordance with the terms of this Purchase Agreement:

(a) it is duly organized and existing, and in good standing, under applicable law;

(b) it has the requisite authority to enter into this Purchase Agreement under applicable
federal, state, and local laws, and is in compliance in all material respects with the terms and
conditions of this Purchase Agreement;

(c) the terms and conditions of this Purchase Agreement do not violate any provision of its
organizational documents; and

(d) except as otherwise provided in the Origination Agreement, in connection with all PHH
Loans purchased by PHH pursuant to this Purchase Agreement, from the date any PHH Loan is closed
pursuant to the Original Agreement until the date such PHH Loan is purchased pursuant to this
Purchase Agreement, MLCC will have taken no action (not otherwise the responsibility of PHH
pursuant to the Origination Agreement) nor will it have failed to take any action (not otherwise
the responsibility of PHH pursuant to the Origination Agreement) that might cause any PHH Loan not
to be in compliance with, or

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

10 

not to have been originated in compliance with, all applicable federal, state and local laws and
regulations, the Mortgage Lending Laws, Applicable Requirements, and the terms of this Purchase
Agreement.

SECTION 7.  Representations and Warranties of MLCC as to Pipeline Loans . The Pipeline
Loans have been processed by MLCC in accordance with the MLCC Underwriting Guidelines previously
submitted to PHH and in accordance with all Applicable Requirements.

SECTION 8.  Representations and Warranties of MLCC as to Pledged Asset Services . MLCC
represents and warrants to PHH that prior to its assignment to the related investor, MLCC had a
first priority perfected security interest in each Securities Account, or, if necessary to perfect
a first priority security interest in each asset contained in such Securities Account, a first
priority perfected security interest in each such asset contained in such Securities Account and
following MLCC s assignment of the Pledge Agreements and related security interest, the related
investor has a first priority perfected security interest in each Securities Account, or, if
necessary to perfect a first priority security interest in each asset contained in such Securities
Account, a perfected first priority security interest in each such asset contained in such
Securities Account.

SECTION 9.  Representations and Warranties of PHH . PHH represents and warrants to MLCC
that at the time it executes this Purchase Agreement and at the time it purchases each PHH Loan
from MLCC:

(a) it is duly organized and existing, and in good standing, under the laws of the State of
New Jersey and it is qualified to transact business in each jurisdiction in which such
qualification is deemed necessary. It is properly licensed and qualified to transact business in
all appropriate jurisdictions to conduct all activities performed under this Agreement;

(b) it has the requisite authority to enter into this Purchase Agreement and to perform the
obligations required of it hereunder under applicable federal, state, and local laws, and
compliance with the terms and conditions of this Purchase Agreement do not and will not violate any
provision of its Articles of Incorporation or its Bylaws. The execution and delivery of this
Agreement, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, each have been duly and
validly authorized by all necessary corporate action. This Agreement constitutes a valid and
legally binding agreement of PHH enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as may be limited
by bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws or equitable principles affecting the enforcement of
creditors  rights generally;

(c) the terms and conditions of this Purchase Agreement do not violate any instrument relating
to the conduct of PHH s business or any other agreement to which PHH is a party; and no consent or
approval of any governmental entity or any third party is required for PHH to execute, or to
purchase PHH Loans pursuant to, this Purchase Agreement;

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

11 

(d) it has made no misstatement or omission of material fact in any written or oral representation
it has made to MLCC in connection with this Purchase Agreement;

(e) except as otherwise provided in the Origination Agreement, with respect to all PHH Loans
to be sold hereunder that were originated by MLCC with the assistance of PHH pursuant to the
Origination Agreement, PHH has performed its services under the Origination Agreement in accordance
with the requirements set forth therein, and has taken no action, nor has it failed to take any
action, that might cause any PHH Loan not to be in compliance in all material respects with all
Applicable Requirements and the terms of this Purchase Agreement, including but not limited to:
the fair housing act, anti-redlining, equal credit opportunity, truth-in-lending, real estate
settlement procedures, fair credit reporting, and every other prohibition against unlawful
discrimination in residential mortgage lending or governing consumer credit, and also including,
without limitation, the Consumer Credit Reporting Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1975 and
Regulation B, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement
Act, Truth in Lending Law, in particular, Regulation Z as amended, the Flood Disaster Protection
Act of 1973, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1975, and Regulation X and state consumer
credit codes and laws in connection with all PHH Loans;

(f) there is no litigation, proceeding, claim, demand or governmental investigation pending
or, to the knowledge of PHH, threatened, nor is there any order, injunction or decree outstanding
against or relating to PHH, which could result in liability to MLCC or materially impair the
ability of PHH to perform its obligations hereunder, nor does PHH know of any material basis for
any such litigation, proceeding, claim or demand or governmental investigation. PHH is not in
default with respect to any order of any court, governmental authority or arbitration board or
tribunal to which PHH is a party or is subject, and PHH is not in violation of any laws,
ordinances, governmental rules or regulations to which it is subject; and

(g) no consent, approval, authorization or order of any court or governmental agency or body
is required for the execution, delivery and performance by PHH of or compliance by PHH with this
Agreement or the purchase of the PHH Loans as evidenced by the consummation of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, or if required, such approval has been obtained prior to the
Effective Date.

SECTION 10.  Confidentiality and No Personal Solicitation . (a) Each party understands
that certain information which it has been furnished and will be furnished in connection with this
Agreement, including, but not limited to, information concerning business procedures or prices,
policies or plans of the other party or any of its Affiliates, is confidential and proprietary, and
each party agrees that it will maintain the confidentiality of such information and will not
disclose it to others or use it except in connection with the proposed transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, without the prior written consent of the party furnishing such information.
Information which is generally known in the industry concerning a party or among such party s
creditors generally or which has been disclosed to the other party by third parties who have a
right to do so shall not be deemed confidential or proprietary information for these purposes. If
PHH, any of its Affiliates or any officer, director, employee or

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

12 

agent of any of the foregoing is at any time requested or required to disclose any information
supplied to it by or on behalf of MLCC in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, PHH
agrees to provide MLCC with prompt notice of such request(s) so that MLCC may seek an appropriate
protective order and/or waive PHH s compliance with the terms of this Section. If MLCC, any of its
Affiliates or any officer, director, employee or agent of any of the foregoing is at any time
requested or required to disclose any information supplied to it by or on behalf of MLCC in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, MLCC agrees to provide PHH with prompt notice
of such request(s) so that PHH may seek an appropriate protective order and/or waive MLCC s
compliance with the terms of this Section. Notwithstanding the terms of this Section, if, in the
absence of a protective order or the receipt of a waiver hereunder, PHH or MLCC is nonetheless, in
the opinion of its counsel, compelled to disclose information concerning the other party to any
tribunal or other governing or regulatory body or else stand liable for contempt or suffer other
censure or penalty, PHH or MLCC may disclose such information to such tribunal without liability
hereunder. Upon termination of this Agreement, each party agrees to promptly return to the other
all confidential materials, and all copies thereof, which have been furnished to it in connection
with the transactions contemplated hereby.

(b) All information provided by Mortgagors in connection with a PHH Loan shall be treated by
PHH as confidential information and shall be handled in the same manner as described in Section
11(a) and as otherwise required under applicable laws.

(c) Without MLCC s prior written consent, which may be withheld by MLCC in its sole
discretion, neither PHH nor any Affiliate shall solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be
solicited, for subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate financing
arranged through the Equity Access Program), or any product or service whatsoever, including,
without limitation, any investment or financial services or products, insurance products or
services and brokerage account services. PHH (but not any of its Affiliates) may solicit
Mortgagors for prepayment of the related Mortgage Loans, but only if (i) PHH has obtained MLCC s
prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld, (ii) such solicitation is made in
compliance with the Applicable Requirements and (iii) upon obtaining any positive responses to such
solicitation, PHH processes and closes the related Mortgage Loans pursuant to the Origination
Agreement and purchases Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loans and Jumbo/Non-Conforming Loans
resulting therefrom pursuant to this Agreement. Neither MLCC nor any of its Affiliates shall be
prohibited from soliciting any Mortgagor or causing any Mortgagor to be solicited for any product
or service now offered (or hereafter offered) by MLCC or any Affiliate of MLCC, other than for
prepayment of any Mortgage Loan. PHH shall not prepare or disseminate, for compensation or
otherwise, any mailing lists relating to the Mortgagors, the Mortgage Loans, the servicing rights
(as such term is defined in the Servicing Agreement), or otherwise, including any lists of
Mortgagors, without MLCC s prior written consent, which may be withheld by MLCC in its sole
discretion. The parties hereto nevertheless agree that (i) either PHH, MLCC or their Affiliates
may from time to time undertake promotions that are directed to either their own general customer
base or to the general public at large and that do not target Mortgagors directly, including,
without limitation, newspaper, radio and television advertisements and mass mailing or telephone
solicitations and that (ii) offers by PHH, MLCC or their Affiliates to refinance Mortgage Loans
under this Program in response to, or as a result of, contact initiated by such related Customers
or their representatives shall not constitute solicitation. PHH shall cause each subsequent
purchaser of

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

13 

any Mortgage Loan to comply with the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this
paragraph.

(d) The confidentiality provisions contained in this Section 10 shall survive the termination
of this Agreement.

SECTION 11.  Indemnification . (a) Each Party hereto (each an Indemnitor) agrees to
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the other Party and each of its respective officers, directors,
employees, agents, attorneys, members and shareholders of each of the foregoing (collectively
called the   Indemnitees  ) from and against any and all Losses (as that term is defined in
the Origination Agreement) imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Indemnitees, whether
brought under common law or in equity, or in contract, tort or otherwise, caused by, arising from
or connected with (i) the breach by the Indemnitor of any term, condition, representation,
obligation or warranty of such Indemnitor set forth in this Agreement or (ii) the negligence or
willful misconduct of the Indemnitor.

(b) Before either Party is entitled to indemnification as provided in this Section 11, the
Party claiming indemnification shall give notice to the other Party of the claimed breach, and the
other Party shall have sixty (60) days to cure such breach, which period shall have expired before
either Party may enforce rights to indemnification hereunder. Cure of the breach within such sixty
(60) day period shall not relieve the breaching Party from its obligations to indemnify the other
Party for the Losses suffered by the other Party on account of the breach by the breaching Party.

(c) The indemnification provisions contained in this Section 11 shall survive the termination
of this Agreement.

SECTION 12.  Termination . This Purchase Agreement shall automatically expire and
terminate upon the earlier of (i) December 31, 2010 (the   Initial Termination Date  ) and
(ii) the date upon which the Origination Agreement is terminated in accordance with the terms
thereof. If the Origination Agreement shall have been extended for an extension term, this
Agreement shall be automatically extended for the same extension term without any action by the
parties hereto (the   Extension Term  ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that
(A) a Party shall materially breach any of its representations, warranties or covenants or shall
materially default in the performance of any of its duties or obligations hereunder, and such
breach or default shall not be substantially cured within sixty (60) days after written notice
specifying the breach or default has been given by the non-breaching or non-defaulting Party, such
non-breaching or non-defaulting Party may, by giving written notice thereof to the breaching or
defaulting Party, terminate this Agreement for cause as of a future date specified in such notice
of termination; (B) an insolvency, bankruptcy or similar proceeding shall have been commenced, or a
decree or order of an appropriate court, agency or supervisory authority for the appointment of a
conservator, receiver or liquidator shall have been entered against the other Party (the
  Bankrupt Party  ), then the other Party may, by giving written notice thereof to the
Bankrupt Party, terminate this Agreement for cause as of a future date specified in such notice of
termination; (C) PHH s good standing with HUD or both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac shall have been
revoked for cause (it being understood that PHH may choose to cease doing business with one but not
both of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac) and PHH fails to have such good standing

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

14 

reinstated within thirty (30) days, then MLCC may, by giving notice thereof to PHH, terminate this
Agreement for cause as of a future date specified in such notice of termination; or (D) a PHH
Competitor Change of Control shall have occurred, then at any time after MLCC shall have received
notice of such PHH Competitor Change of Control, MLCC may, by giving written notice thereof to PHH,
terminate this Agreement as of a future date specified in such notice of termination; (E) a PHH
Change of Control (other than a PHH Competitor Change of Control) shall have occurred, then at any
time within 30 days after the two year anniversary of such PHH Change of Control, MI., may, by
giving written notice thereof to PHH, terminate this Agreement as of a future date specified in
such notice of termination; or (F) PHH shall have materially breached any of its representations,
warranties or covenants contained in the Trademark Use Agreement and such breach shall not have
been cured within the time frame prescribed therein, then MLCC may, by giving written notice
thereof to PHH, terminate this Agreement for cause as of a future date specified in such notice of
termination. Upon termination of this Agreement, PHH shall not be required to purchase PHH Loans,
except as to those for which an Approval Letter has been issued;  provided ,  however ,
that termination of this Agreement pursuant hereto shall not release any party from liability for
its own misrepresentation or for any breach by it prior to such termination of any covenant,
agreement or warranty contained herein.

SECTION 13.  No Assignment . The Parties hereto shall not assign all or any part of
their respective rights or obligations arising hereunder or delegate any duty other than as
permitted by this Agreement without first obtaining the written consent of the other party.

SECTION 14.  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 15.  Lawful Conduct; Severability; Release . The Parties hereto shall not
perform, or be expected to perform, any act hereunder that is, or reasonably believed to be, in
violation of any local, state or federal law, then such provision shall be considered null and void
for purposes of this Agreement with all other provisions remaining in full force and effect. Each
party expressly releases the other from any liability in the event either of said parties cannot
fulfill any obligation hereunder due to any prohibition under local, state or federal laws
pertaining to such obligation.

SECTION 16.  Amendments . (a) This Purchase Agreement may be amended and any provision
hereof waived, but only in a writing signed by the Party against whom such amendment or waiver is
sought to be enforced except as set forth in paragraph (b) below.

(b) PHH agrees that Exhibit A hereto may be amended by MLCC during the month of January 2003
and during every second January thereafter by sending written notice to PHH of such amendments;
 provided ,  however , that each such amendment may change no more than ten Persons on
such Exhibit;  provided   further , that (i) Persons added to Exhibit A shall be
Persons which are Financial Services Firms and (ii) Exhibit A shall not at any time contain more
than twenty Persons.

SECTION 17.  Captions . The headings and captions in this Purchase Agreement are for
ease of reference only and shall not be relied upon in construing any provision hereof.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

15 

SECTION 18.  Notices . All notices and statements to be given under this Purchase
Agreement are to be in writing, delivered by hand, facsimile, overnight express or similar service,
or first class United States mail, postage prepaid and registered or certified with return receipt
requested, or facsimile, to the following addresses or facsimile numbers, as applicable (which
addresses and facsimile numbers may be revised by written notice):

MLCC: 

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, FL 32246-6484 
Attention: President

with a copy to:

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, FL 32246-6484 
Attention: General Counsel

PHH: 

Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 
Attention: Robert C. Andwood 
Mail Stop CS 
Facsimile: 856-917-6702

with a copy to:

Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 
Attention: William F. Brown 
Senior Vice President   General Counsel 
Mail Stop LGL 
Facsimile: 856-917-9422

All written notices and statements shall be deemed given, delivered, received and effective upon
personal delivery or receipt of facsimile.

SECTION 19.  Counterparts . This Purchase Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts. Each counterpart so executed shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts
shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

SECTION 20.  No Waivers; Remedies Cumulative . The waiver of any breach of this
Purchase Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver of any other or subsequent breach.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

16 

All remedies afforded by this Purchase Agreement for a breach hereof shall be cumulative (that is,
in addition to all other remedies provided for herein or by law or in equity).

SECTION 21.  Binding Effect . This Purchase Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and
be binding upon the Parties hereto and, except as otherwise limited herein, their respective
successors and permitted assigns.

SECTION 22.  Benefit of Parties Only . This Purchase Agreement is made for the sole
benefit of the Parties hereto and of their respective successors and assigns. Nothing herein shall
create, or be deemed to create, a relationship between the Parties hereto, or either of them, and
any third person in the nature of a third party beneficiary, equitable lien or fiduciary
relationship. There are no intended third party beneficiaries of this Agreement.

Further, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the relationship between the parties
is that of seller and purchaser and not a partnership or joint venture, and PHH is not, and shall
not represent to third parties that it is acting as an agent for, and on behalf of, MLCC.

SECTION 23.  Construction . This Purchase Agreement shall be construed fairly as to
both Parties and not in favor of or against either Party, regardless of which Party prepared this
Purchase Agreement.

SECTION 24.  Further Assurances; Survival . The representations and warranties
contained in this Agreement shall survive the sale of the PHH Loans to PHH and shall not terminate,
notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement, any restrictive or qualified endorsement on any
Mortgage Note or PHH s examination or failure to examine any Mortgage File or PHH s approval of any
such PHH Loan for purchase. In addition, the provisions contained in Sections 10 and 11 shall
survive the termination of this Agreement.

SECTION 25.  Cooperation . The Parties acknowledge that the success of their efforts
under this Purchase Agreement depends on the cooperation of each of them. Accordingly, each of the
Parties shall use its best efforts and confer in good faith in an attempt to agree upon any matter
hereunder which requires such agreement and to effect any and all improvements, modifications or
enhancements of the internal systems of either Party hereto, all as soon as possible.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

17 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned Parties has caused this Purchase Agreement to be
duly executed and delivered by one of its duly authorized officers, all as of the Effective Date.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
     d/b/a PHH MORTGAGE SERVICES 

By: 
       
     /s/ Terence Edwards 

Name: 

Title: 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT 
          CORPORATION 

By: 
       
     /s/ Kevin O  Hanlon 

Name: 

Title: 

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION

December 15, 2000

Mr. Robert E. Groody 
Senior Vice President   Finance 
Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, NJ 08504

Dear Bob:

In connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of the date hereof between Cendant
Mortgage Corporation (  Cendant  ) and Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation (  MLCC  ) (the
  Asset Purchase Agreement  ) and the transactions contemplated thereby, Cendant shall be
obligated to purchase the Pipeline Loans pursuant to Section 2(c) of the Loan Purchase Agreement
(as such term is defined in the Asset Purchase Agreement) for an amount to be determined as
provided in paragraph 2 of this letter agreement (this   Letter Agreement  ) (such amount, as
determined in accordance with the following paragraph, the   Aggregate Pipeline Loan Purchase
Price  ). Further, in accordance with the Origination Assistance Agreement, MLCC shall be
obligated to pay origination assistance fees to PHH with respect to any Pipeline Loan that becomes
a Mortgage Loan in amounts as set forth in paragraph 3 of this Letter Agreement. In return, MLCC
shall receive from Cendant   * * *   as value for the sale of the servicing rights with respect
thereto under either of the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of January 28,
2000, as amended, between Cendant and MLCC, or the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000 between Cendant and MLCC.

No later than  * * *  , Cendant and MLCC shall determine and set the Aggregate Pipeline Loan
Purchase Price in accordance with Schedule I attached hereto.

Upon the closing and funding of any Pipeline Loan, MLCC shall pay to PHH an origination
assistance fee in an amount as specified on Schedule II hereto.

If you are in agreement with the foregoing, please acknowledge such agreement by signing in
the space provided below.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement 

Initially capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Letter Agreement (including the
schedules attached hereto) shall have the meanings set forth in the Loan Purchase and Sale
Agreement or the Origination Assistance Agreement, as applicable. This Letter Agreement may be
executed in separate counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but such counterparts
shall constitute one and the same instrument. This Letter Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

Yours truly, 

/s/
Kevin O Hanlon

Kevin O Hanlon  

President and Chief Operating Officer  

Acknowledged and agreed as
of this    day of December, 2000

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION

/s/ Terence Edwards

Name:

Title:

EXECUTION COPY 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 

TO LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

and 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

November 30, 2001 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 TO 
LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 

ADDENDUM AGREEMENT NO. 1 TO LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 30, 2001
and effective as of September 10, 2001 (the   Effective Date  ) (this   Addendum  ),
between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer
Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (the   MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION
d/b/a Cendant Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall
Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 (  Cendant  ).

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to that certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated
as of December 15, 2000 (the   Purchase Agreement   and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant desire to supplement the Purchase Agreement with the terms
and provisions set forth in this Addendum;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants
hereinafter set forth, MLCC and Cendant hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS; 
INCORPORATION INTO AGREEMENTS 

Section 1.01     Definitions  . Unless otherwise defined herein, all initially
capitalized terms used in this Addendum shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the
Purchase Agreement, to which this Addendum shall be attached.

(a)  Certain Defined Terms . As used in this Addendum, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:

Applicable Requirements   has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement;
 provided ,  however , that for purposes of this Addendum, such term shall also include
the following language after clause (A)(vii):   and (viii) with respect to the Correspondent
Lending Program, the terms of the Correspondent Lending Guide; and (ix) with respect to the
Mortgage Broker Program, the terms of the Mortgage Broker Guide. 

Borrower   means the individual or individuals obligated to repay a mortgage loan.

Broker Agreement   means a  Broker Agreement  entered into by MLCC and a Mortgage
Broker in connection with the Mortgage Broker Program.

Cendant Loans   shall mean shall mean any of the types of Mortgage Loans listed on
Schedule 1 hereto, as the same may be amended from time to time by written agreement between MLCC
and Cendant, and offered to Borrowers under either the Correspondent Lending Program or the
Mortgage Broker Program. Cendant Loans shall also include any of the foregoing Mortgage Loans that
are supported by a Mortgage 100 sm  Loan or a Parent Power Mortgage Loan.

Correspondent Lender   means a Person in the business of originating, making and
selling first lien residential mortgage loans secured by a mortgage on one-to-four family
dwellings.

Correspondent Lending Guide   means the  Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation Seller
Guide , a copy of which has been provided to Cendant, which sets forth the terms and conditions
applicable to the sale of Cendant Loans pursuant to either the Correspondent Lending Program or the
Mortgage Broker Program, and which is amended from time to time by MLCC.

Correspondent Lending Program   means MLCC s program of purchasing Cendant Loans from
Correspondent Lenders pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Correspondent Lending Guide, the
applicable Commitment and the applicable Master Purchase Agreement. Such program also includes the
underwriting of certain Cendant Loans referred by a Correspondent Lender to MLCC, which Cendant
Loans are underwritten and delivered to MLCC in accordance with the Correspondent Lending Guide,
the applicable Commitment and the applicable Master Purchase Agreement.

Delegated Loans   mean those Cendant Loans originated and closed pursuant to and in
accordance with the  Delegated Underwriting Program  (as such term is defined in the Correspondent
Lending Guide).

Master Purchase Agreement   means a  Master Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement  entered
into by MLCC and a Correspondent Lender, which agreement sets forth the terms and conditions
pursuant to which a Correspondent Lender agrees to sell, and MLCC agrees to buy, Cendant Loans
having such characteristics and in such aggregate principal amounts as are agreed to between MLCC
and the applicable Correspondent Lender in accordance with the eligibility guidelines in the
Correspondent Lending Guide and the applicable  Commitment .

Mortgage Broker   means a Person engaged in the business of brokering mortgage loans
and approved by MLCC, as of the date hereof or in accordance with the terms of this Addendum, to
participate in the Mortgage Broker Program.

Mortgage   Broker Guide   means the  Mortgage Broker Manual , a copy of which
has been provided to Cendant, which sets forth the terms and conditions applicable to Cendant Loans
and Mortgage Brokers under the Mortgage Broker Program, as the same may be amended from time to
time by MLCC.

Mortgage Broker Program   means MLCC s program of underwriting Cendant Loans referred
to MLCC by Mortgage Brokers.

2 

Mortgage Loan   means an individual mortgage loan and all rights with respect thereto,
evidenced by a mortgage and a mortgage note.

Non-Table Funded Loans   means any Cendant Loan closed and funded by a Correspondent
Lender under the Correspondent Lender Program.

Prior Approval Loans   means any Cendant Loan for which a Correspondent Lender, in
accordance with the Correspondent Lending Guide, must receive underwriting approval from Cendant,
acting on behalf of MLCC, prior to the Cendant Loan being closed by the Correspondent Lender.

Program Exception Loan   means a Mortgage Loan (a) which shall have been closed and
purchased by MLCC pursuant to either the Correspondent Lender Program or the Mortgage Broker
Program and (b) with respect to which Cendant and MLCC shall have agreed in writing that such
Mortgage Loan is a  Program Exception Loan  and that it shall be deemed a  Cendant Loan. 

Table Funded Loans   means any Cendant Loan closed and funded by Cendant on MLCC s
behalf and in MLCC s name under the Mortgage Broker Program.

(b)  Certain Cendant Terms . The parties hereto acknowledge that Cendant, in the
day-to-day conduct of its own business, uses terms other than the defined terms used in this
Addendum. For ease of Cendant s reference only, and not in any manner modifying or changing the
definitions set forth in Section 1.01(a) above, or modifying or changing the use of such
definitions in this Addendum, Cendant uses the following terminology in the day-to-day conduct of
its business:

Tier III Loan   is used by Cendant to refer to a Table Funded Loan.

Tier VI Loan   is used by Cendant to refer to a Prior Approval Loan.

Tier VII Loan   is used by Cendant to refer to a Delegated Loan.

Tier VI Loan   and   Tier VII Loan   are each used by Cendant to refer to a
Non-Table Funded Loan.

Section 1.02     Incorporation of Addendum  . Unless specifically addressed below,
all terms and conditions, representations and warranties, and rights, obligations and covenants of
Cendant and MLCC set forth in the Purchase Agreement shall apply or shall be deemed to be given or
made, as the case may be, to Cendant Loans purchased and sold pursuant to the terms of this
Addendum, and to the subject matter of this Addendum. Further, except as indicated below, all
references in the Purchase Agreement to a  Mortgage Loan  shall be deemed to include a reference to
the Cendant Loans purchased and sold pursuant to the terms of this Addendum.

Section 1.03     Ratification  . The Purchase Agreement is hereby supplemented by
the terms and conditions of this Addendum. Except as supplemented by this Addendum, the

3 

Purchase Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and
confirmed.

ARTICLE II 

PURCHASE AND SALE 

Section 2.01     Purchase and Sale of Mortgage Loans  . Cendant agrees to purchase
from MLCC, and MLCC agrees to sell to Cendant, all right, title and interest in and to all Cendant
Loans that have been (i) purchased by MLCC pursuant to the Correspondent Lending Program or (ii)
originated by MLCC pursuant to the Mortgage Broker Program, in each case other than Program
Exception Loans (collectively, the   Program Loans  ), including the right to service such
Program Loans, collect the servicing fee on such Program Loans, and collect any income related
thereto (the   Program Servicing Rights  ), subject to the respective representations,
warranties, obligations and covenants of MLCC and Cendant under the Purchase Agreement, including
the obligation of Cendant to service such Program Loans in accordance with the Servicing
Provisions. Cendant covenants and agrees that in exercising and performing all acts necessary and
incident to the Program Servicing Rights, it will do so in accordance with the Servicing
Provisions.

Section 2.02     Purchase Price  . Cendant shall purchase all Program Loans from
MLCC by wiring the Program Purchase Price (as defined below) for each Program Loan in immediately
available funds to an account designated by MLCC no later than   * * *  . The   Program Purchase
Price   for each Program Loan shall be equal to   * * *  .

Section 2.03     Assignment of Certain Rights  . Upon discovery by either Cendant
or MLCC of a breach of any representation or warranty made by the Wholesale Lender in the Master
Purchase Agreement or the Broker Agreement, as the case may be, with respect to a Program Loan that
materially and adversely affects the interests of Cendant in such Program Loan, the party
discovering such breach shall give prompt written notice to the other. Upon the request of
Cendant, MLCC shall assign to Cendant any and all of its rights against the Wholesale Lender
arising from such a breach of representation or warranty. MLCC further agrees that it shall assist
Cendant, at Cendant s sole cost and expense, in prosecuting any claim against such Wholesale Lender
arising from such a breach of representation or warranty.

Section 2.04     Program Exception Loans  

(a)  Agreement to Purchase . Cendant agrees to purchase from MLCC, and MLCC agrees to
sell to Cendant, all right, title and interest in and to all Program Exception Loans, including the
right to service such Program Exception Loans, collect the servicing fee on such Program Exception
Loans, and collect any income related thereto (the   Exception Loan  

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

4 

Servicing Rights  , subject to the respective representations, warranties, obligations and
covenants of MLCC and Cendant under the Purchase Agreement, including the obligation of Cendant to
service such Program Exception Loans in accordance with the Servicing Provisions. Cendant
covenants and agrees that in exercising and performing all acts necessary and incident to the
Exception Loan Servicing Rights, it will do so in accordance with the Servicing Provisions.

(b)  Purchase Price . Cendant shall purchase all Program Exception Loans from MLCC by
wiring the Exception Loan Purchase Price (as defined below) for each Program Exception Loan in
immediately available funds to an account designated by MLCC no later than   * * *  . The
  Exception Loan Purchase Price   for each Program Exception Loan shall be equal to   * * *  .

ARTICLE III 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

Section 3.01     No Assignment  . The parties hereto shall not assign all or any
part of their respective rights or obligations arising hereunder or delegate any duty other than as
permitted by this Addendum without first obtaining the written consent of the other party.

Section 3.02     Governing Law  . This Addendum shall be governed by, and construed
and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

Section 3.03     Lawful Conduct; Severability; Release  . The parties hereto shall
not perform, or be expected to perform, any act hereunder that is, or is reasonably believed to be,
in violation of any local, state or federal law. If any provision of this Addendum is now or later
in violation of any local, state or federal law, then such provision shall be considered null and
void for purposes of this Addendum with all other provisions remaining in full force and effect.
The parties agree to cooperate in good faith to replace any such provision which is so rendered
null and void with a substitute provision that approximates as nearly as practicable the parties 
original substantive intent and that does not violate any local, state or federal law. Each party
expressly releases the other from any liability in the event either of said parties cannot fulfill
any obligation hereunder due to any prohibition under local, state or federal laws pertaining to
such obligation.

Section 3.04     Amendments  . This Addendum may be amended and any provision
hereof waived, but only in a writing signed by the party against whom such amendment or waiver is
sought to be enforced.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

5 

Section 3.05     Captions  . The headings and captions in this Addendum are for ease of reference only
and shall not be relied upon in construing any provision hereof.

Section 3.06     Counterparts  . This Addendum may be executed in any number of
counterparts. Each counterpart so executed shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts
shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

Section 3.07     Construction  . This Addendum shall be construed fairly as to both
parties and not in favor of or against either party, regardless of which party prepared this
Addendum.

6 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned parties has caused this Addendum to be duly
executed and delivered by one of its duly authorized officers, all as of the date first written
above.

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
     d/b/a PHH MORTGAGE SERVICES 

By:   
     /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name:   
     Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
     COO  

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Donald J. McEnerney

Name:   
     Donald J. McEnerney  

Title:   
     Vice President  

7 

EXECUTION COPY 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

December 21, 2001 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 1 , dated as of December 21, 2001 and effective
as of July 1, 2001 (this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT
CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East,
Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage
Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New
Jersey 08504 (  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000 (the   Purchase Agreement   and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant wishes to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to properly
reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Purchase Agreement . The Purchase Agreement is hereby
amended as follows:

(a)  Section 1 (a) . Section 1(a) of the Purchase Agreement is amended by
deleting the defined terms  Alternative Loans  and  Mortgage Loan  in their entirety and
replacing such terms with the following:

Alternative Loans   shall mean any of the types of Mortgage
Loans listed on Schedule 1 hereto, as the same may be amended from
time to time by written agreement between MLCC and Cendant.

Mortgage Loan   means a domestic, consumer purpose,
one-to-four family (including cooperatives and condominiums)
residential purchase money or refinance closed-end mortgage loan or
open-ended mortgage loan. The term  Mortgage Loan  as used herein
shall include, but not be limited to, Conforming Conventional
Mortgage Loans, Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loans, PrimeFirst   
Loans, Construction Loans, Equity Access Loans, Three Year ARMs, and
Five Year ARMs. This definition is subject to the terms of  Section
1(c). 

Section 1 (a) of the Purchase Agreement is further amended by adding, in alphabetical
order, the following defined terms.

Five Year ARMs   means an adjustable rate Mortgage Loan for
which the interest rate is fixed for the first five (5) years
thereof.

Non-Fixed Rate Equity Access Loan   means any Equity Access
Loan that does not have a fixed interest rate.

Three Year ARMs   means an adjustable rate Mortgage Loan for
which the interest rate is fixed for the first three (3) years
thereof.

(b)  Exhibit D . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement is amended by deleting the
text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the Exhibit D attached hereto.
This Section 1(b) of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of, and retroactive to,
all PHH Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after July 1, 2001.

(c)  Schedule 1 . The Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by adding Schedule l
attached to this Amendment Agreement as Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   

   /s/
Kevin O Hanlon

Name:   
     Kevin O Hanlon  

Title:   
     President  

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name:   
     Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

December 30, 2002 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 2 , dated and effective as of December 30, 2002
(this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey
corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504
(  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, and amended by a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement No. 1 dated as of
December 21, 2001 (collectively, the   Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant amended the Purchase Agreement pursuant to the terms of a certain
Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement No. 1 dated as of December 21, 2001;

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant again wishes to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment to the Purchase Agreement . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement
is hereby amended by deleting the text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the
Exhibit D attached hereto. This Section 1 of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of all
PHH Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after December 30, 2002.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Kevin O Hanlon

Name:   
       Kevin O Hanlon  

Title:   
       President  

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name:   
       Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
       Senior Vice President  

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 3 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

June 30, 2003 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 3 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 3 , dated and effective as of June 30, 2003
(this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
( MLCC ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation,
with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, and amended by a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement Amendment No. 1 dated
as of December 21, 2001 and a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement Amendment No. 2 dated as of
December 30, 2002 (collectively, the   Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant again wishes to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment to the Purchase Agreement . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement
is hereby amended by deleting the text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the
Exhibit D attached hereto. This Section 1 of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of all
PHH Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after June 30, 2003.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
       Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
       President  

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name:   
        Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
       Chief Operating Officer  

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 4 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

December 29, 2003 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALEAGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 4 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO.4,  dated and effective as of December 29, 2003
(this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey
corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504
(  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, and amended by a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement No. 1 dated as of
December 21, 2001, a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement No. 2 dated as of December 30, 2002,
and a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement No. 3 dated as of June 30, 2003 (collectively, the
  Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant again wishes to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment to the Purchase Agreement . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement
is hereby amended by deleting the text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the
Exhibit D attached hereto. This Section 1 of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of all
PHH Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after December 29, 2003.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
       Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
       President  

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name:   
       Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
       Chief Operating Officer  

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 5 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

June 28, 2004 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 5 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 5,  dated and effective as of June 28, 2004
(this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey
corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504
(  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, and amended by a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement Amendment No. 1 dated
as of December 21, 2001, a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement Amendment No. 2 dated as of
December 30, 2002, a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement Amendment No. 3 dated as of June 30,
2003, and a certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement Amendment No. 4 dated as of December 29, 2003
(collectively, the   Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant again wishes to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment to the Purchase Agreement . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement
is hereby amended by deleting the text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the
Exhibit D attached hereto. This Section 1 of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of all
PHH Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after June 28, 2004.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by. and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
       Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
       President  

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Robert E. Groody

Name:   
       Robert E. Groody  

Title:   
       Chief Operating Officer  

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 6 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
(f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) 

Dated as of 

February 18, 2005 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 6 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO.6 , dated and effective as of February 18, 2005
(this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, f/k/a Cendant Mortgage
Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel,
New Jersey 08504 (  PHH  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of December
15, 2000 (as amended and supplemented as of the date hereof, the   Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and PHH desires to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to properly
reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Purchase Agreement . The Purchase Agreement is hereby
amended as follows:

(a)  Schedule 1 . Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
the text of such Schedule in its entirety and replacing it with the Schedule 1 attached to this
Amendment Agreement.

(b)  Section 1(a) . Section 1(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by adding,
in alphabetical order, the following defined terms:

Five Year ARM/Conforming Mortgage Loan   means a Five Year
ARM Mortgage Loan for which the principal balance thereof as of the
date of origination does not exceed the loan amount for a Conforming
Conventional Mortgage Loan.

Five Year ARM/Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loan   means a
Five Year ARM Mortgage Loan for which the principal balance thereof
as of the date of origination exceeds the maximum loan amount for a
Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loan.

Fixed-Rate Equity Access    Loan   means any Equity
Access    Loan that has a fixed interest rate.

Three Year ARM/Conforming Mortgage Loan   means a Three Year
ARM Mortgage Loan for which the principal balance thereof as of the
date of origination does not exceed the loan amount for a Conforming
Conventional Mortgage Loan.

Three Year ARM/Jumbo/Non-Conforming Mortgage Loan   means a
Three Year ARM Mortgage Loan for which the principal balance thereof
as of the date of origination exceeds the maximum loan amount for a
Conforming Conventional Mortgage Loan.

(c)  Section 2 . Section 2 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by adding
thereto a new sub-section, Section 2(e), which shall provide in its entirety as follows:

(e) MLCC may agree to sell to PHH, and PHH may agree to purchase
from MLCC, from time to time one or more PrimeFirst   
Loans that have been originated in accordance with and under the
terms of the Origination Agreement. Each such
PrimeFirst    Loan, including the related Servicing Rights,
shall be sold pursuant to, and in accordance with, the terms and
provisions of this Purchase Agreement, and shall be a  PHH Loan, 
and not an  Alternative Loan,  for all purposes of this Purchase
Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 2 hereof. 

(d)  Exhibit D . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the
text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the Exhibit D attached to this Amendment
Agreement.

(e) Section 1 of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of all applicable Mortgage
Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after February 18, 2005.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
       Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
       President  

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Gregory A. Gentek

Name:   
       Gregory A. Gentek  

Title:   
       Senior Vice President  

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 7 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
(f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) 

Dated as of 

July 1, 2005 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 7 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 7 , dated and effective as of July 1, 2005 (this
  Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, f/k/a Cendant Mortgage
Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel,
New Jersey 08504 (  PHH  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of December
15, 2000 (as amended and supplemented as of the date hereof, the   Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and PHH desires to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to properly
reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Purchase Agreement . The Purchase Agreement is hereby
amended as follows:

(a)  Schedule 1 . Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
the text of such Schedule in its entirety and replacing it with the Schedule 1 attached to this
Amendment Agreement.

(b)  Exhibit D . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the
text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the Exhibit D attached to this Amendment
Agreement.

(c) Section 1 of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of all applicable Mortgage
Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after July 1, 2005.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties

hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an
original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
       Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
       President  

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Gregory A. Gentek

Name:   
       Gregory A. Gentek  

Title:   
       Senior Vice President  

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 8 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
(f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) 

Dated as of 

January 1, 2006 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 8 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 8 , dated and effective as of January 1, 2006
(this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, f/k/a Cendant Mortgage
Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel,
New Jersey 08504 (  PHH  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of December
15, 2000 (as amended and supplemented as of the date hereof, the   Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and PHH desires to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to properly
reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Purchase Agreement . The Purchase Agreement is hereby
amended as follows:

(a)  Schedule 1 . Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
the text of such Schedule in its entirety and replacing it with the Schedule 1 attached to this
Amendment Agreement.

(b)  Exhibit D . Exhibit D to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the
text of such exhibit in its entirety and replacing it with the Exhibit D attached to this Amendment
Agreement.

(c) Section 1 of this Amendment Agreement shall be effective as of all applicable Mortgage
Loans purchased and sold under the Purchase Agreement on and after January 1, 2006.

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties

hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an
original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
       Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
       President  

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Gregory A. Gentek

Name:   
       Gregory A. Gentek  

Title:   
       Senior Vice President  

EXECUTION COPY 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 9 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
(f/k/a Cendant Mortgage Corporation) 

Dated as of 

March 24, 2006 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT NO. 9 

LOAN PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 9,  dated and effective as of March 24, 2006
(this   Amendment Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246
(  MLCC  ), and PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, f/k/a Cendant Mortgage
Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leaden hall Road, Mt. Laurel,
New Jersey 08504 (  PHH  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to a Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of December
15, 2000 (as amended and supplemented as of the date hereof, the   Purchase Agreement  

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and PHH desires to amend the Purchase Agreement in order to properly
reflect the current relationship between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Purchase Agreement . The Purchase Agreement is hereby
amended as follows:

(a)  Section 1(a) . The following definition is added to Section 1(a):

Non-Alternative Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan that is not an
Alternative Loan. 

(b)  Section 2(a) . Section 2(a) is amended in its entirety by replacing the
text thereof with the following text:

Except as otherwise provided herein, PHH agrees to purchase from MLCC, and MLCC agrees
to sell to PHH, all right, title and interest in and to (A) all Non-Alternative Mortgage
Loans that have been originated in accordance with and under the terms of the Origination
Agreement and (B) any Alternative Loans that have been originated in accordance with and
under the terms of the Origination Agreement and with respect to which PHH and MLCC have
agreed in writing are to be purchased and sold hereunder (the mortgage loans referred to in
clauses (A) and (B), collectively,   PHH Loans  ), including the right to service such
PHH Loans, collect the servicing fee on such PHH Loans, and collect any income related
thereto (  Servicing Rights  ), subject to the respective representations, warranties
and covenants of the Parties under this Purchase Agreement, including the obligation of PHH
to service such PHH Loans in accordance with the Servicing Provisions. Except as provided
in clause (B) above, PHH shall have no obligation to purchase, and MLCC shall have no
obligation to sell, any Alternative Loans hereunder. PHH covenants and agrees that in
exercising and performing all acts

necessary and incident to the Servicing Rights, it will do so in accordance with the
Servicing Provisions. 

(c)  Section 5 . Section 5 is amended in its entirety by replacing the text
thereof with the following text:

Except as provided in clause (B) of Section 2(a) hereof, MLCC retains the right, at
its sole option and discretion, to sell to a third party any Alternative Loan. For each
such Alternative Loan, the transfer of servicing rights shall be governed by the terms and
conditions of the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of January 28,
2000, as amended, by and between PHH and MLCC, and PHH shall service such Alternative Loans
pursuant to the terms of the Portfolio Servicing Agreement. 

SECTION 2.  Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 3.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

SECTION 4.  Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 5.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the purchase Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
       Lawrence P. Washington  

Title:   
       Chairman and President  

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
       /s/ Gregory A. Gentek

Name:   

Title:   

</EX-10.69>

<EX-10.70>
 13
 y26027exv10w70.htm
 EX-10.70: LOAN SUBSERVICING AGREEMENT

EX-10.70 

Exhibit 10.70 

EXECUTION COPY

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 
Servicer

and

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
Subservicer

EQUITY
ACCESS    AND OMEGA SM  LOAN SUBSERVICING AGREEMENT

Dated and effective as of June 6, 2002

***   INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

Table of Contents

i 

ii 

iii 

iv 

v 

Page 

Section 17.20.

Merger or Consolidation of Servicer and Subservicer 

69 

Section 17.21.

Termination Assistance 

70 

EXHIBIT B  

MLCC EQUITY ACCESS DAILY RECONCILIATION  

SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS  

Exhibit A

List of Pooling and Servicing Agreements 

Exhibit B

23A/B Procedures 

Exhibit C

Change of Control List 

Exhibit D

Mortgage Loan Schedule 

Exhibit E

Operations Guide 

Exhibit F

Reconciliation Schedule of Subservicer Advances 

Exhibit G

BSA Policies and Procedures 

Exhibit H-1

Exposure Report 

Exhibit H-2

Omega Delinquency Report 

Exhibit I

Form of Limited Power of Attorney 

Exhibit J

MLCC Equity Access Daily Reconciliation 

Exhibit K

Periodic Subservicer Remittance and Accounting Reports 

Exhibit L

Private Investor Agreements 

Exhibit M

Equity Access Litigation Tracking Report 

Exhibit N

Provisional Credit Tracking Report 

Exhibit O

Returned Check Tracking Report 

Schedule 2.07

Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loans 

Schedule 2.26

Outsource Vendors 

Schedule 5.03(a)

Form of Officer s Certificate for Certain Events 

vi 

This  EQUITY ACCESS        and OMEGA     SM     LOAN SUBSERVICING AGREEMENT ,
dated and effective as of June 6, 2002 (this   Agreement  ), between Merrill Lynch Credit
Corporation, as Servicer (the   Servicer  ), and Cendant Mortgage Corporation, as Subservicer
(the   Subservicer  ) (each a   Party  , and collectively, the   Parties  ).

W 
 I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H  :

WHEREAS , the Subservicer is engaged in the business of servicing and subservicing residential
mortgage loans;

WHEREAS , the Servicer and the Subservicer have executed an Origination Assistance Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000, pursuant to which the Subservicer has agreed to originate on behalf
of the Servicer certain revolving home equity line of credit loans, and the parties hereto desire
the Subservicer to subservice such loans for the Servicer; and

WHEREAS , the Servicer services certain revolving line of credit loans secured by marketable
securities, and the parties hereto desire the Subservicer to subservice such loans for the
Servicer; and

WHEREAS , the Servicer services certain securitized and non-securitized, residential first and
second lien equity line of credit loans pursuant to the Pooling and Servicing Agreements and
Private Investor Agreements, and the parties hereto desire the Subservicer to subservice such loans
for the Servicer; and

WHEREAS , the Servicer and the Subservicer wish to set forth the terms under which the all such
loans are to be subserviced by the Subservicer for the Servicer;

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements hereinafter set
forth, the Servicer and the Subservicer agree as follows:

ARTICLE I  
  DEFINITIONS  

Section 1.01.    Incorporation of Recitals; Defined Terms  . The foregoing recitals are
hereby incorporated herein by reference. Whenever used in this Agreement, the following words and
phrases, unless the context otherwise requires, shall have the meaning specified therefore in this
Article:

Accommodation Party   means Bankers Trust Company, New Jersey, Limited Trust Services,
its successors, or any other FDIC-insured bank mutually agreed between the Servicer and the
Subservicer.

Account Number   means an account number or similar form of access number relating to a
Borrower s Mortgage Loan or other financial product or service with or from MLCC, other than any
internal identifying number assigned by Cendant to the Mortgage Loan.

Additional Collateral   means, with respect to any Mortgage 100 sm  Loan,
Omega sm  Loan or Parent Power    Mortgage Loan, the marketable securities
subject to a security interest pledged as security for the related loan.

Additional Collateral Agreement   means a Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement, a
Merrill Lynch Omega sm  Account Agreement or a Parent Power      Agreement.

Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan   means each Mortgage Loan that is either a Mortgage
100 sm  Loan, Omega sm  Loan or Parent Power      Mortgage Loan as
to which the Additional Collateral is still required to be provided as set forth in the related
Pledge Agreement.

Affiliate   means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or
indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. (Capitalized
terms derived from the word Affiliate (e.g.,  Affiliated ) shall have corresponding meanings.) For
the purposes of this definition,  control,   controlled by,  and  under common control with  means
the direct or indirect possession of ordinary voting powers to elect a majority of the board of
directors or comparable body of a Person.

Agreement   means this Equity Access    and Omega sm  Loan
Subservicing Agreement and all exhibits and schedules hereto, all of which are incorporated herein
by reference, as the same may from time to time be amended or supplemented by one or more
instruments executed by all parties hereto.

Ancillary Fees   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, (i) all late charges, (ii)
all fees payable pursuant to Subservicer s  Speed Pay  program, (iii) all returned-item charges
(e.g., non-sufficient funds (  NSF  ) charges) and (iv) out-of-pocket expenses for
post-default property inspections.

Applicable Requirements   means and includes, as of the time of reference, collectively,
(1) with respect to the Mortgage Loans, all of the following: (a) all contractual obligations of
Servicer (and any Originator and/or Prior Servicer) or Subservicer contained in this Agreement, the
other Transaction Agreements, the Mortgage Loan Documents, the applicable Pooling and Servicing
Agreements, the Private Investor Agreements, the applicable guides or any agreement with any
Insurer, for which obligations Servicer (and any Originator and/or Prior Servicer) or Subservicer
is responsible or at any time was responsible; (b) all applicable federal, state, and local legal
and regulatory requirements (including laws, statutes, rules, regulations, administrative
interpretations and ordinances as well as any of the foregoing requirements applicable to Servicer
by virtue of its state licenses, qualifications and exemptions and by virtue of its being a
subsidiary of Merrill Lynch Bank USA) binding upon Servicer (and any Originator and/or Prior
Servicer) or Subservicer; (c) all other applicable requirements and guidelines of each governmental
agency, board, commission, instrumentality, and other governmental body or
office having jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, those of any Insurer; (d) all other
applicable judicial and administrative judgments, orders, stipulations, awards, writs, and
injunctions; (e) with respect to Subservicer s obligations, the provisions of the Operations Guide,

2 

to the extent applicable; (f) the reasonable and customary mortgage servicing practices of prudent
mortgage lending institutions that service mortgage loans of the same type as the Mortgage Loans in
the jurisdiction in which the related Mortgaged Properties are located, if applicable; and (g) any
applicable MLCC or Merrill Lynch Bank USA internal policies and procedures, as revised from time to
time in accordance with the terms hereof, and (2) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as
amended.

Appraised Value   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the value of the related
Mortgaged Property based upon the lesser of (i) the appraisal made for the Originator at the time
of origination of the Mortgage Loan, and (ii) if applicable, the sales price of the Mortgaged
Property at such time of origination.

ARM Loan   means a Mortgage Loan with a Mortgage Rate that is adjustable pursuant to the
terms of the related Mortgage Note.

Assignment   means, with respect to a Mortgage Loan, a written instrument that, when
recorded in the appropriate office of the local jurisdiction in which the related Mortgaged
Property is located, will reflect the transfer of the Mortgage identified therein from the
transferor to the transferee named therein.

Available Credit   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the Credit Limit for such
Mortgage Loan less the Outstanding Principal Balance for such Mortgage Loan less any hold on funds.

Borrower   means the borrower with respect to any Mortgage Loan.

Borrower Default   means, with respect to any Borrower (i) the failure by a Borrower to
make any payment under a Mortgage Loan when due and payable, (ii) the failure by a Borrower to
perform any covenant of any Mortgage Loan Document which failure is not cured within any applicable
cure period, or (iii) the occurrence of any other event or condition which would permit Servicer,
under the Mortgage Loan Documents applicable to such Borrower, to (A) terminate Borrower s Mortgage
Loan, (B) accelerate repayment of the Mortgage Loan, (C) temporarily or permanently restrict
further Mortgage Loan Advances under a Mortgage Loan, or (D) reduce the Credit Limit with respect
to a Mortgage Loan.

Borrower Information   means any personally identifiable information or records in any
form (written, electronic, or otherwise) relating to a Borrower, including, but not limited to, a
Borrower s name, address, telephone number, loan number, loan payment history, delinquency status,
insurance carrier or payment information, tax amount or payment information; the fact that the
Borrower has a relationship with MLCC; and any other personally identifiable information.

BSA   means the regulations set forth in 31 C.F.R. Part 103, promulgated under the Bank
Secrecy Act, 12 U.S.C.   1829b, 12 U.S.C.    1951-1959 and 31 U.S.C.    5311-5330, and similar
requirements under state laws and regulations.

3 

BSA Policies and Procedures   shall have the meaning given in   Article XVI  
hereof.

Business Day   means any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii) a day on which
banking institutions in the States of New Jersey, Florida or New York, or the state in which the
Corporate Trust Office (as such term is defined in the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement) is
located are required or authorized by law or by executive order to be closed, or (iii) a day on
which Servicer or Subservicer is not actually open for business.

Card   means a VISA    card issued by an Affiliate of Servicer at its option,
to a Borrower under a Mortgage Loan pursuant to his or her Mortgage Loan Documents for use in
obtaining Mortgage Loan Advances.

Cendant   means Cendant Mortgage Corporation, d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, and its
successors in interest.

Cendant Mortgage Loan   means a Mortgage Loan originated by Subservicer pursuant to the
Origination Agreement.

Certificate   means  Certificate,  as such term is defined in the related Pooling and
Servicing Agreement.

Certificateholder   means a  Certificateholder,  as such term is defined in the related
Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

Certificate Insurer   means the  Certificate Insurer,  as such term is defined in the
related Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

Charge   means a Mortgage Loan Advance initiated through the authorized use of a Card.

Check   means any check, draft or other form of payment order drawn on an agent of
Subservicer, or drawn on Servicer at its option, and issued to a Borrower under a Mortgage Loan
pursuant to his or her Mortgage Loan Documents for use in obtaining a Mortgage Loan Advance.

Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

Company   means the  Company,  as such term is defined in the related Pooling and
Servicing Agreement.

Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan   shall have the meaning given in   Section 2.07  .

Condemnation Proceeds   means all awards or settlements in respect of a taking of a
partial or an entire Mortgaged Property by the exercise of the power of eminent domain or
condemnation.

Continuing Directors   means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board
of Directors of either Cendant Corporation or Subservicer, as the case may be, who:

4 

(1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date hereof; or

(2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval
of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such
nomination or election.

Co-op Lease   means, with respect to a Co-op Loan, the proprietary lease with respect to
a dwelling unit occupied by the Mortgagor and relating to the stock allocated to such dwelling
unit.

Co-op Loan   means a Mortgage Loan secured by the pledge of the evidence of ownership
allocated to a dwelling unit in a residential cooperative housing corporation and a collateral
assignment of the related Co-op Lease.

Credit Limit   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the maximum amount of credit
available to a Borrower in the form of Mortgage Loan Advances under his or her Mortgage Loan
Documents.

Defaulted Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan (i) as to which a monthly payment is
three (3) months or more past due, (ii) for which the Mortgagor has filed for bankruptcy, or (iii)
for which foreclosure proceedings have been commenced.

Direct Competitor   shall mean any Person listed on   Exhibit C   hereto.

Distribution Certificate   has the meaning set forth in   Section 5.01(a)  .

Distribution Date   means  Distribution Date,  or the  Remittance Date,  as such terms
are defined in the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

EDP   means the MLCC computer tracking system used by MLCC as of January 1, 2001 to
service Equity Loans, which computer tracking system is licensed to Subservicer pursuant to the
Licensing Agreement, or such other computer tracking system that Subservicer may utilize from time
to time to subservice the Equity Loans,  provided , that such other computer tracking system
enables Subservicer to perform its obligations under this Agreement, including its obligation to
produce the reports and provide the information required to be provided to the Servicer hereunder.

EDP Participation Report   means the EDP system report that identifies investor
participation balances.

Equity Loan   means, as applicable: (a) home equity line of credit loans known as
 Equity Access    Loans  secured by liens on real property in various states, or as such
product is defined in the applicable Private Investor Agreement or Pooling and Servicing Agreement,
or (b) Omega sm  Loans. This definition is subject to the terms of   Section
2.01(i)  .

5 

Event of Default   shall have the meaning given in   Section 14.01  .

FDIC   means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor thereto.

Federal Funds Rate   means the per annum rate of interest (rounded upward to the nearest
1/100 of 1%) that is the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions
arranged on such day or, if such day is not a Business Day, the previous Business Day, by federal
funds brokers computed and released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or any successor) in
substantially the same manner as such Federal Reserve Bank currently computes and releases the
weighted average it refers to as the  Federal Funds Effective Rate  at the date of this Agreement.

FHA   means the Federal Housing Administration or any successor thereto.

FHLMC   means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or any successor thereto.

Financial Services Firm   shall mean any Person that offers, directly or indirectly, any
financial services or financial product.

FNMA   means the Federal National Mortgage Association or any successor thereto.

FNMA Servicing Guide   means the FNMA Servicing Guide, as amended from time to time.

FRB   means the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or San Francisco, as the case may be.

GNMA   means the Government National Mortgage Association or any successor thereto.

HUD   means the Department of Housing and Urban Development or any successor thereto.

Indemnified Party   shall have the meaning given in   Section 13.04(b)   hereof.

Indemnifying Party   shall have the meaning given in   Section 13.04(b)   hereof.

Independent Appraisal   means an appraisal by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
Servicer and Subservicer or, if they cannot so mutually agree within 10 days of request by either
such party, by two widely recognized independent appraisers, one of which appraisers shall be
chosen by Servicer and one by Subservicer, or, if such two appraisers cannot agree as to an
appraisal, they shall jointly select a third widely recognized independent appraiser;
 provided ,  however , that if either party shall fail to appoint an appraiser within
15 days after a written request to do so by the other party or, if such two appraisers cannot agree
and fail to appoint a third appraiser within 20 days after the date of the appointment of the
second of such appraisers, then either party may apply to the American Arbitration Association to
make such appointment. In the event such third independent appraiser shall be chosen to provide
such appraisal, unless

6 

the parties agree otherwise, such appraisal shall be required to be made
within 20 days of such appointment. If three appraisers shall be appointed, the determination of
the appraiser that shall differ most from the second highest determination of all three appraisers
shall be excluded, the remaining two determinations shall be averaged and such average shall
constitute the determination of the appraisers;  provided ,  however , that, if the
determination of two appraisers shall differ equally from the second highest determination of all
three appraisers, all three determinations shall be averaged and such average shall constitute the
determination of the appraisers. Any appraiser appointed pursuant to the foregoing procedure shall
be instructed to determine the amount within 20 days after his appointment.

Insurance Proceeds   means proceeds of any mortgage insurance policy, title policy,
hazard policy or other insurance policy covering a Mortgage Loan, if any, to the extent such
proceeds are not to be applied to the restoration of the related Mortgaged Property or released to
the Mortgagor in accordance with the procedures the Subservicer is required to follow in
subservicing mortgage loans pursuant to this Agreement.

Insurer   means an entity that insures or guarantees all or part of the risk of loss on
a Mortgage Loan, including but not limited to, any private mortgage insurance provider, standard
hazard insurance provider, flood insurance provider, earthquake insurance provider or title
insurance provider.

Interest Advance   means those advances of interest required by the related Pooling and
Servicing Agreement or Private Investor Agreement.

IRS   means the Internal Revenue Service or any successor thereto.

Issuer   means the issuer of the Checks and Cards, as designated by Servicer.

Knowledge   means that whenever any representation, warranty or other statement
contained in this Agreement is qualified by reference to  Servicer s knowledge  or Subservicer s
knowledge  or  to the best of Servicer s knowledge  or  to the best of Subservicer s knowledge, 
that qualified reference shall be deemed to include knowledge of facts or conditions of which
Servicer or Subservicer either is actually aware or should have been aware under the circumstances
in the discharging of Servicer s or Subservicer s servicing duties. All matters of public record
that, at the time of origination of any Mortgage Loan originated by Servicer or Subservicer,
appeared in the related title insurance policy/commitment shall be deemed to be
known by Servicer or Subservicer, as the case may be, and all matters contained or disclosed
in any Mortgage Loan Documents shall be deemed to be known by Servicer or Subservicer.

Law   means any United States federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance,
regulation, rule, code, order, requirement, judgment, decree, writ, injunction or rule of law
(including common law).

7 

Licensing Agreement   means that certain License and Services Agreement, dated as of
December 15, 2000, between Servicer and Subservicer, as the same may be amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof.

Liquidation Proceeds   means amounts, other than Insurance Proceeds and Condemnation
Proceeds, received by the Subservicer or Servicer in connection with the liquidation of a Defaulted
Mortgage Loan through foreclosure, sale or otherwise (including, but not limited to, amounts
received by the Subservicer from MLCC with respect to a Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge
Agreement), other than amounts received following the acquisition of an REO Property.

Loan Information   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the servicing, loan level
and other information as may from time to time be designated by Servicer, which information is, as
of the date hereof, being generated by the EDP.

Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement   means that certain Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement,
dated as of December 15, 2000, between Servicer and Subservicer, as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.

Loan-to-Value Ratio   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, as of any date on which
a determination thereof is made, the ratio on such date of the aggregate outstanding principal
balance of such Mortgage Loan and the outstanding principal balance of any first lien residential
mortgage loan to the Appraised Value of the related Mortgaged Property.

Loss   means, in respect of any indemnification arising under this Agreement, any and
all losses, claims, damages, penalties, liabilities, obligations, judgments, settlements, awards,
demands, offsets, defenses, counterclaims, actions or proceedings, reasonable out-of-pocket costs,
expenses and attorneys  fees of the Indemnified Party (including but not limited to, (a) any
reasonable costs, expenses and attorneys  fees incurred by the Indemnified Party in enforcing such
right of indemnification against any Indemnifying Party or with respect to any appeal and (b)
interest at the Federal Funds Rate on any amount for which the Indemnified Party is entitled to be
indemnified from the date the Indemnified Party notifies the Indemnifying Party of the expenditure
of such amounts until such amounts are paid by the Indemnifying Party;  provided ,
 however , that in no event shall a  Loss  include a claim for consequential damages,
indirect damages or lost profits except when the Loss results from fraud or willful misconduct of
the Indemnifying Party.

Merrill Lynch Omega   sm    Account Agreement   means, with respect to each
Omega sm  Loan, the Merrill Lynch Omega sm  Account Agreement between the related
Mortgagor and
MLCC pursuant to which such Mortgagor granted a security interest in various investment
securities.

MLCC   means Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and its successors in interest.

8 

MLCC Data   means any data, databases, reports and records relating to financial
products from or services with MLCC, including, without limitation, Account Numbers, Borrower
Information, and data derived therefrom.

MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement   means the Portfolio Servicing Agreement dated as of
January 28, 2000, between the Servicer, as owner, and the Subservicer, as the company, as the same
may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.

MLCC Services   shall mean collectively, the Origination Services and Subservicer s
obligations under the Servicing Rights.

Monthly Payment   means the monthly payment due on a Mortgage Loan which is payable by a
Mortgagor from time to time under the related Mortgage Note.

Mortgage   means the mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument creating a first or
second lien interest in an estate in fee simple in real property (or, in the case of a Co-op Loan,
the applicable security agreement and financing statements), or a leasehold that extends at least
five years beyond the maturity of the related Mortgage Loan, securing a Mortgage Note.

Mortgage 100   sm    Loan   means a Mortgage Loan having at the time of origination
a Loan-to-Value Ratio generally in excess of MLCC s maximum acceptable Loan-to-Value Ratio for such
Mortgage Loan, which Mortgage Loan is secured by Additional Collateral having a market value, as of
the date of such loan s origination, at least equal to the related Original Additional Collateral
Requirement.

Mortgage 100   sm    Pledge Agreement   means, with respect to each Mortgage
100 sm  Loan, the Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement for Securities Account
between the related Mortgagor and MLCC pursuant to which such Mortgagor granted a security interest
in various investment securities.

Mortgage Loan   means an Equity Loan, as identified on the Mortgage Loan Schedule.

Mortgage Loan Advance   means an advance of funds to or on behalf of a Borrower pursuant
to a Mortgage Loan, whether by Check, Card, draft, wire transfer, certified or cashier s check or
otherwise.

Mortgage Loan Documents   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the file containing
any and all documents, instruments or agreements evidencing, securing or relating to the loan and
related Mortgage, including notes, credit agreements, Mortgages, guarantees, card
agreements, check agreements, wire transfer agreements, and title and casualty insurance
policies.

Mortgage Loan Schedule   means the schedule of Mortgage Loans subserviced pursuant to
this Agreement, which has been delivered to the Subservicer, containing the information set forth
in   Exhibit D   attached hereto.

9 

Mortgage Note   means the note or other evidence of the indebtedness of a Mortgagor
secured by a Mortgage.

Mortgage Rate   means the per annum rate of interest for the applicable period borne by
the Mortgage Loan, as determined pursuant to the Mortgage Note.

Mortgaged Property   means any one- to four-family residence (at the time of the
origination of the applicable Mortgage Loan) that is encumbered by a Mortgage, including all
buildings and fixtures thereon and all accessions thereto, and including installations of
mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning systems located in or affixed to
such buildings, and all alterations, additions and replacements thereto. The term  Mortgaged
Property  shall include, to the extent the context shall permit or require, a dwelling unit in a
private, non-profit, residential cooperative housing corporation together with the shares of stock
issued by said corporation, which are represented by a stock certificate.

Mortgagor   means any and all obligors under a Mortgage Note and/or Mortgage.

Nonrecoverable Advance   means a  Nonrecoverable Advance,  as such term is defined in
the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

OAA Equity Loan   means an Equity Loan that has been originated by the Subservicer on
behalf of the Servicer pursuant to the Origination Agreement.

Officer s Certificate   means a certificate signed by a Vice President or more senior
officer of the Subservicer or the Servicer.

Omega   sm    Loan   means a revolving line of credit loan secured by marketable
securities.

Operations Guide   means the Operations Guide attached hereto as   Exhibit E  , as
the same shall be amended from time to time by Servicer.

Original Additional Collateral Requirement   means  Original Additional Collateral
Requirement,  as such term is defined in the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

Origination Agreement   means the Origination Assistance Agreement, dated as of December
15, 2000, between Servicer and Subservicer, as the same may be amended from time to time in
accordance with the terms thereof.

Origination Services   shall mean the loan origination services to be performed by
Subservicer for and on behalf of Servicer as detailed in the Origination Agreement.

Originator   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the person(s), entity or entities
that (i) took the relevant Mortgagor s loan application; (ii) processed the relevant Mortgagor s
loan application; and/or (iii) closed and/or funded such Mortgage Loan.

10 

Outsource Vendor   means any vendor, whether or not an Affiliate, retained by Servicer
to perform any aspects of servicing the Mortgage Loans and identified in   Schedule 2.26  .

Outstanding Principal Balance   means the sum of all principal amounts outstanding with
respect to a Mortgage Loan as of a particular time, without reduction for the amount of any payment
received in respect of principal that has not been cleared and credited.

Parent Power        Agreement   means a Parent Power    Guaranty and
Security Agreement for Securities Account or a Parent Power    Guaranty Agreement for Real
Estate.

Parent Power        Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate   means an agreement between
MLCC and a guarantor on behalf of a Mortgagor under a Parent Power    Mortgage Loan
pursuant to which such guarantor guarantees the payment of certain losses under such Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan, authorizes MLCC to draw on the related Equity Loan to fund such
guaranty, and has secured such Equity Loan with a Mortgage secured by a lien on residential real
estate of the guarantor.

Parent Power        Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account   means
an agreement between MLCC and a guarantor on behalf of a Mortgagor under a Parent Power  Mortgage
Loan pursuant to which such guarantor guarantees the payment of certain losses under such Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan and has granted a security interest to MLCC in certain marketable securities
to collateralize such guaranty.

Parent Power        Mortgage Loan   shall mean a Mortgage Loan that is supported by
a Parent Power  Agreement.

Participation   means the participating investor ownership or security interest in the
Mortgage Loan.

Pass-Through Transfer   means the sale or other transfer (which may include one or more
related, intermediate transfers in a whole loan format to one or more Affiliates of the Servicer)
of some or all of the Mortgage Loans to a Subsequent Purchaser that is a trust or another Person as
a part of a transaction (i) that involves (A) the sale of securities evidencing an interest in such
Mortgage Loans or (B) the public issuance or private placement of securities evidencing an interest
in such Mortgage Loans, which securities also may evidence an interest in other mortgage loans, may
be issued through a REMIC and may, as a condition to their issuance, be rated  AA/Aa  or higher by
the Rating Agencies and (ii) for which the Subservicer or the Servicer will act as the master
servicer of the Mortgage Loans.

Permission Agreement   means the Trademark Use Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000,
between Servicer and Subservicer.

Person   means an individual, association, joint stock company, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, or unincorporated organization, or a federal,
state, city, municipal, or foreign government, or an agency or political subdivision thereof.

11 

Personnel   of a Party shall mean such Party, its employees, subcontractors,
consultants, representatives and agents.

Pledge Agreement   means any Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement or a Merrill
Lynch Omega sm  Account Agreement related to an Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan.

Pooling and Servicing Agreement   means a pooling and servicing agreement, designated as
such, to which the Servicer, the related Trustee, and the related Company are parties. The Pooling
and Servicing Agreements subject to this Agreement are identified on   Exhibit A   attached
hereto, as may, from time to time, be amended.

Prior Servicer   means any Person that was a servicer or subservicer of any Mortgage
Loan before Servicer became the Servicer of such Mortgage Loan under a Pooling and Servicing
Agreement.

Private Investor   means, (i) MLCC or (ii) with respect any Investor Agreement, the
party for which Servicer is servicing and administering the related mortgage loans pursuant to such
Investor Agreement.

Private Investor Agreement   means the agreement or agreements (including all exhibits
and schedules thereto and all amendments and supplements thereof) between Servicer and the
applicable Private Investor relating to Mortgage Loans owned by such Private Investor and the
servicing thereof by Servicer. With respect to Mortgage Loans for which MLCC is the Private
Investor,  Investor Agreement  means this Agreement. The Private Investor Agreements subject to
this Agreement are identified on   Exhibit L   attached hereto, as may, from time to time, be
amended.

Provisional Credit   means any non-VISA    credit that is given to an Equity
Loan to manage fraud related activity or to adjust account activity for Subservicer research
purposes pursuant to conditions in Operations Guide.

Purchase and Sale Agreement   means the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000, between Servicer and Subservicer, as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.

Rating Agency   means, (i) with respect to Mortgage Loans which are, as of the date
hereof, subject to a Pooling and Servicing Agreement, a  Rating Agency,  as such term is defined in
the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement, and (ii) with respect to Mortgage Loans
which are not subject to a Pooling and Servicing Agreement as of the date hereof, Standard  
Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., Moody s Investors Service, Inc., Fitch
Investors Service, L.P. and Duff   Phelps Credit Rating Co. and, in connection with any
Pass-Through Transfer, any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization from which
the Servicer or any of its Affiliates may seek a rating with respect to such Pass-Through Transfer.

12 

REMIC   means a  real estate mortgage investment conduit,  as such term is defined in
the Code.

Returned Check   has the meaning set forth in   Section 2A.1  .

REO Disposition   means the final sale of an REO Property.

REO Property   means any Mortgaged Property owned in fee simple (or if a cooperative,
the allocated shares of which are owned) by the applicable Trustee as a result of a foreclosure of
a Mortgage Loan, or similar action.

RESPA   means the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, 12 U.S.C.   2601  et seq.,  and
Regulation X, 24 C.F.R.   3500.21, thereunder, as the foregoing may be amended from time to time.

Revolving Trust   means those existing and future securitizations of Equity
Access    Loan account balances, including, but not limited to, the securitizations set
forth on   Exhibit A  .

Servicer   means MLCC.   

Servicer Advance   means the outstanding moneys that have been advanced by Servicer from
its funds in connection with its servicing of the Mortgage Loans (including, but not limited to,
interest, taxes, ground rents, assessments, insurance premiums, foreclosure and
bankruptcy fees and
expenses, and other expenses) which have been made in accordance with the applicable Private
Investor Agreement or applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement, and for which Servicer has a
right of reimbursement from Mortgagors, Insurers, the applicable Trust Fund, or otherwise.

Servicing Fee   means the servicing fee payable to the Servicer as set forth in the
applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

Software   means the proprietary computer software programs, and related Software
Documentation, listed on   Exhibits A  ,   B   and   C   of the Licensing Agreement,
excluding any Third Party Software that may be embedded therein.

Software Documentation   means, with respect to any Software, the operating instructions
and user, installation, set-up, configuration, training and support manuals for the Software or any
part thereof, whether prepared by Servicer or any Third Party, in any form or medium whatsoever.

Subservicer   means Cendant.

Subservicer Advance   means the outstanding moneys that have been advanced by the
Subservicer from its funds in connection with its subservicing of a Mortgage Loan (including, but
not limited to, taxes, ground rents, assessments, insurance premiums, foreclosure and

13 

bankruptcy
fees and expenses, and other expenses) (i) in accordance with the applicable Private Investor
Agreement or applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement, (ii) that are recoverable through
Liquidation Proceeds, Insurance Proceeds and/or Condemnation Proceeds, or that are made at the
direction of the Servicer and (iii) for which the Subservicer has a right of reimbursement.

Subservicer Change of Control   means the occurrence of any of the following:   

(1) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, or by way of merger or
consolidation, in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of
the assets of Cendant Corporation or Subservicer (or any successor entity to either thereof)
to any  person    as such term is used in   Section   13(d)(3)   of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or

(2) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of Cendant
Corporation or Subservicer;   

(3) the consummation of any transaction, including, without limitation, any merger or
consolidation, the result of which is that any  person,  as defined above, becomes the
beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of either
Cendant Corporation or Subservicer; or

(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of
Cendant Corporation are not Continuing Directors.   

Subservicer Competitor Change of Control   means a Subservicer Change of Control to a
Direct Competitor.

Subservicing Fee   means for each Mortgage Loan, a monthly fee payable by MLCC to
Subservicer as compensation for Subservicer s subservicing of Mortgage Loans pursuant to this
Agreement, as more particularly set forth in   Section 6.02(a)  .

Subsequent Purchaser   means any Person that acquires an interest in a Mortgage Loan
from the Servicer.

Third Party Consent   means the written consent or approval of any third party whose
consent or approval may be required to effect a transfer of the subservicing of the Mortgage Loans
subject to a Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

Third Party Software   means any software or program and related Software Documentation
incorporated into or used separately or in connection with the Software, that is owned by a Third
Party and licensed to Servicer.

14 

Transaction Agreements   means this Agreement, the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the
Permission Agreement, the Origination Agreement, the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement and the MLCC
Portfolio Servicing Agreement.

Transfer Date   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the date on which the
Subservicer begins physically subservicing the Mortgage Loan, or such other date as to which the
parties may agree.

Transferred Equity Loan   means an Equity Loan which is subject to a Pooling and
Servicing Agreement or a Private Investor Agreement.

TRETS   means Transamerica Real Estate Tax Service.

Trust Fund   means a  Trust Fund,  as such term is defined in the related Pooling and
Servicing Agreement.

Trustee   means the  Trustee,  as such term is defined in the related Pooling and
Servicing Agreement.

VISA      means VISA U.S.A. Inc.

VISA        Suspense Account   means the active account serviced on the EDP system
for managing VISA    disputes and chargebacks. Postings to this account are to offset
VISA    credits that are given to Equity Loans to manage fraud related activity or to
replenish the Borrower s Equity Loan for Subservicer research purposes pursuant to conditions in
the Operations Guide and VISA    chargeback procedures.

Whole Loan Transfer   means the sale or other transfer to a Subsequent Purchaser of some
or all of the Mortgage Loans by the Servicer in a whole loan format for which the Subservicer will
act as the servicer of the Mortgage Loans pursuant to a servicing agreement with substantially the
same terms and conditions as this Agreement or another agreement mutually acceptable to the
Servicer and the Subservicer.

Section 1.02.    General  . The terms defined herein include the plural as well as the
singular and the singular as well as the plural.

ARTICLE II  
  SUBSERVICING OF MORTGAGE LOANS  

Section 2.01.    Subservicer to Subservice Mortgage Loans  . (a) Commencing on the applicable Transfer Date, the Subservicer shall subservice each
Mortgage Loan in accordance with all Applicable Requirements and the terms and conditions of (i)
the related Mortgage Loan Documents, Private Investor Agreements and the related Pooling and
Servicing Agreement, (ii) to the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing, this Agreement and the
Permission Agreement, (iii) to the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing, the Operations Guide
(to the extent applicable), and (iv) to the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing, the FNMA
Servicing Guide as it relates to second lien residential

15 

mortgage loans. The Operations Guide may
be amended from time to time by Servicer with Subservicer s prior written consent (which shall not
be unreasonably withheld), without formal amendment of this Agreement. To the extent of a conflict
between the Operations Guide and this Agreement, this Agreement shall control. In all
circumstances where a Private Investor Agreement or Pooling and Servicing Agreement permits a
servicing activity to be performed in a manner consistent with such practices or procedures as the
Servicer uses with respect to comparable loans held in its own portfolio, or in the exercise of the
Servicer s discretion, then the Subservicer shall perform such servicing activity (1) consistent
with the requirements of the Operations Guide, or (2) in the event the Operations Guide is silent
as to such activity, consistent with the FNMA Servicing Guide (as it relates to second lien
residential mortgage loans). In the event the FNMA Servicing Guide is silent as to such activity,
the Subservicer shall notify the Servicer and follow such directions as the Servicer may reasonably
provide.

(b) The Subservicer shall be responsible for maintaining, and shall maintain, a complete set
of records for the Mortgage Loans. The Subservicer s books and records shall reflect the ownership
of the Mortgage Loans in the name of the applicable Trustee or Private Investor in the case of all
Transferred Equity Loans and in the name of MLCC in the case of all OAA Equity Loans and
Omega sm  Loans, or as MLCC may otherwise direct in order to reflect any change in the
ownership of such Mortgage Loans. All documents, records and correspondence, regardless of the
media in which they are stored or maintained shall remain the property of the Servicer, and the
Subservicer shall hold the same in a fiduciary capacity for the Servicer.

(c) In the event the Subservicer fails to subservice any ARM Loan consistent with the
subservicing standards set forth in   Section 2.01(a)   above, the Subservicer shall notify the
Servicer within    * * *    of obtaining Knowledge of such failure and shall take all appropriate
actions required to correct any such servicing deficiencies so that such loans are thereafter
subserviced in compliance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. Subservicer shall be
solely responsible for any costs and expenses required to effectuate such remediation, except to
the extent that any such servicing deficiency was a continuation of a failure by Servicer or any
Prior Servicer to service an ARM Loan in accordance with the Applicable Requirements (other than
the Subservicer s continuation of such previous servicing practices after the Subservicer knew or
should have known that such previous servicing practices violated the Applicable Requirements). In
addition to the foregoing, Subservicer shall take such additional corrective

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

16 

action as may be directed by Servicer, the cost of which shall be the sole responsibility of
Servicer.

(d) This Agreement is between the Servicer and Subservicer and no Private Investor, Trustee,
Certificateholder, Certificate Insurer or Rating Agency shall be deemed a party hereto.
Subservicer shall have no claims, rights, obligations, duties or liabilities to any Trustee,
Certificateholder, Certificate Insurer or Rating Agency under this Agreement, other than to a
Trustee, pursuant to   Section 14.04(c)   of this Agreement.

(e) The Subservicer shall maintain an EDP containing all information and programming necessary
to subservice the Mortgage Loans in accordance with   Section 2.01(a)   above. The Mortgage
Loans shall be grouped on the Subservicer s EDP to reflect the ownership of the Mortgage Loans in
the name of the applicable Trustee or Private Investor in the case of all Transferred Equity Loans
and in the name of MLCC in the case of all OAA Equity Loans and Omega sm  Loans, or as
MLCC may otherwise direct in order to reflect any change in the ownership of such Mortgage Loans.

(f) The Subservicer may not waive, modify or vary any term of a Mortgage Note or Mortgage
without the Servicer s prior written consent.

(g) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Subservicer shall follow any reasonable
directions given by the Servicer with respect to the subservicing of the Mortgage Loans.

(h) With the exception of Ancillary Fees and any other charges expressly permitted by the
Mortgage Note, Mortgage, and applicable law, the Subservicer covenants and agrees that it will not,
without the prior written consent of the Servicer, charge or collect from any Mortgagor, or trustee
under a deed of trust, any fees of any kind including, but not limited to, charges for amounts
expended by the Subservicer, regardless of the characterization of the fee or charge.

(i) Servicer shall have the right, upon at least 90 days prior written notice to Subservicer,
to terminate Subservicer s obligation to subservice Omega sm  Loans under this Agreement.
Such notice shall indicate the date on which Subservicer s obligation to subservice
Omega sm  Loans shall terminate. If Servicer elects to terminate Subservicer s obligation
to service Omega sm  Loans, then Servicer shall pay to Subservicer on such termination
date an early termination fee of    * * *   , which amount shall also compensate Subservicer for all of
Subservicer s out-of-pocket costs and expenses associated with transferring Subservicer s
subservicing obligations for Omega sm  Loans to another subservicer. Such early
termination fee shall be in lieu of any other amount payable under this Agreement by Servicer
(including, without limitation, any amounts payable under   Section 14.04  ). Upon and after
such date, the term  Equity Loan  as defined in   Section 1.01   shall have the following
meaning:

Equity Loan   means home equity line of credit loans known as  Equity
Access    Loans  secured by liens on real property in various states, or as
such product is defined in the applicable Private Investor Agreement or Pooling and
Servicing Agreement.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

17 

Section 2.02.    Mortgage Loan Documents  . Subservicer shall, at its own cost and
expense, act as a document custodian with respect to each Mortgage Loan. Subservicer shall, upon
receipt of a written request from Servicer, provide to Servicer, within seven (7) Business Days,
copies of any Mortgage Loan Documents requested by Servicer, unless such Mortgage Loan Documents
relate to a Mortgage Loan closed prior to January 1, 2001 and such Mortgage Loan is listed on
Schedule 2.02. If Subservicer delivers an original Mortgage Loan Document to a third party, it
shall maintain in its servicing records for presentation to the Servicer upon request, the name,
address, and telephone number of the party to whom the original document was delivered and the
purpose of such delivery. Throughout the term of this Agreement, Subservicer shall make available
during normal business hours at least one (1) managerial level Cendant employee to address and
respond to all of MLCC s requests for any Mortgage Loan Documents, including, without limitation,
those held by Subservicer or held by a document custodian. Subservicer shall provide to Servicer a
list of at least five (5) responsible employees, in addition to the one (1) managerial level
employee, together with their individual telephone and facsimile numbers (the   Contact
List  ), whom Servicer may contact to request Mortgage Loan Documents. As stated above, at
least one (1) employee on the Contact List shall always be available during normal business hours.
Subservicer may from time to time notify Servicer of changes to the Contact List and shall be
deemed to have satisfied its obligation so to make a managerial level employee available if at
least one (1) employee (but not necessarily the same employee) on Contact List is available during
normal business hours.

Section 2.03.    Legal Proceedings Involving the Mortgage Loans  . The Subservicer shall
commence all collection, foreclosure, bankruptcy and eviction proceedings in the name of MLCC for
all Mortgage Loans subject to a Pooling and Servicing Agreement, and in the name of the Private
Investor for all Mortgage Loans owned by a Private Investor (unless otherwise directed by the
Private Investor) in a manner as outlined in the Operations Guide. In the event the Subservicer
receives notice of the existence of any legal proceeding relating to a Mortgage Loan commenced
against the Servicer, the Subservicer shall promptly notify the Servicer and follow such directions
as the Servicer may reasonably provide. The Servicer shall have the right to control any of the
foregoing matters referred to in this   Section 2.03   at the Servicer s request. The
Subservicer shall provide the Servicer, by the 15 th  day of each month (or next Business
Day immediately thereafter) for the preceding month, the report set forth in   Exhibit M  ,
titled   The Equity Access Litigation Tracking Report   and with such report, any such additional
written reports as the Servicer shall reasonably request regarding such legal proceedings,
 provided  that upon a request for an additional written report, the parties agree to
negotiate the responsibility for any incremental costs and expenses associated with the provision
of such additional report. Changes to the form of the Equity Access Litigation Tracking Report
shall only be made with the mutual consent of Servicer and Subservicer.

Section 2.04.    Material Changes  . The Subservicer shall promptly report to the Servicer any change in its business
operations, financial condition, properties or assets that could have a material adverse effect on
the Subservicer s ability to perform its obligations hereunder. Events for which the Servicer must
receive notice include, but are not limited to, the following:

18 

(a) any merger or consolidation, any changes in the Subservicer s ownership whether directly
or indirectly (including any change in ownership of the Subservicer s parent), or any significant
reorganization;

(b) any material changes in management ordered or required by a regulatory authority
supervising or licensing the Subservicer;

(c) the entry against the Subservicer of a decree or order of a court or agency or supervisory
authority having jurisdiction for the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver, liquidator,
assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) in any federal or state bankruptcy,
insolvency, readjustment of debt, marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings, or
for the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs, if such decree or order has remained in force
undischarged or unstayed for a period of sixty (60) days;

(d) the consent by the Subservicer to the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver,
liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) in, or commencement of
a voluntary case under, any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, readjustment of debt,
marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings;

(e) upon the Subservicer s (A) admitting in writing its inability to pay its debts generally
as they become due, (B) filing a petition to take advantage of any applicable insolvency or
reorganization statute, (C) making an assignment for the benefit of its creditors or (D)
voluntarily suspending payment of its obligations;

(f) entry of any court judgment or regulatory order in which the Subservicer is or may be
required to pay a claim or claims that may have a material adverse effect on the Subservicer s
financial condition;

(g) any admission by the Subservicer to the commission of, or any finding that the Subservicer
has committed, any violation of any law, regulation or order in any proceeding or audit commenced
by any governmental, or regulatory authority, or any proceeding commenced in any court of law;

(h) the commencement of any class action law suits against the Subservicer; and

(i) the Subservicer s entry into any agreement with a third party that would result in any
material change in the financial status or ownership of the Subservicer or any merger of the
Subservicer.

Section 2.05.    Subservicer Not to Resign  . The Subservicer shall not resign from the obligations and duties hereby imposed on it
except by mutual consent of the Subservicer and the Servicer. No such resignation shall become
effective until the Servicer or a new Subservicer shall have assumed the Subservicer s
responsibilities and obligations hereunder in the manner provided in   Section 15.01  .

19 

Section 2.06.    Clean-Up Call  . Under each Pooling and Servicing Agreement, Servicer has
the option of buying the Outstanding Balances from the applicable Trust Fund at a stated purchase
price at such time as the principal balance in a given pool reaches a specified percentage of the
original balance. Notwithstanding this Agreement, Servicer retains the option to repurchase such
Outstanding Balances from the related Trust Fund, and Servicer shall provide Subservicer written
notice of such repurchase. At such time as any Outstanding Balances are repurchased, the related
Mortgage Loans shall be subserviced by the Subservicer in accordance with this Agreement.

Section 2.07.    Defaulted Mortgage Loans  . (a) The Defaulted Mortgage Loans listed on
  Schedule 2.07   attached hereto are either in litigation or are REO Properties (together with
the Defaulted Mortgage Loans described in the first sentence of   Section 2.07(b)  ,
  Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loans  ). Following the transfer of the subservicing
responsibilities for the Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loans to the Subservicer, the Servicer shall
continue to administer any litigation or sale of REO Properties in connection therewith in
accordance with the applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement. Servicer shall not be entitled to
receive any compensation for such services. Servicer shall report the status of the Complex
Defaulted Mortgage Loans to the Subservicer on a monthly basis. In the event a Complex Defaulted
Mortgage Loan in litigation is reinstated or the Servicer receives Liquidation Proceeds, Servicer
shall remit such funds to the Subservicer and shall forward the related mortgage file and all other
relevant documentation to Subservicer. In connection therewith, Servicer shall comply with all
reasonable transfer requests of Subservicer. Upon receipt of reinstatement funds, the Subservicer
shall be fully responsible for the subservicing of such Mortgage Loan. Other than the specific
default servicing activities undertaken by Servicer in this   Section 2.07  , the Subservicer
shall be responsible for complying with the applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement, including
but not limited to reporting and remittance of any funds received from Servicer in connection with
any Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan.

(b) The Subservicer agrees to report monthly to the Servicer all Defaulted Mortgage Loans and
all REO Properties subserviced pursuant to this Agreement. Such reporting shall consist of
Subservicer s monthly submission to Servicer of two reports. The first report shall be provided in
the form set forth on   Exhibit H-1  , titled  Exposure Report.  The second report shall be
provided in the form set forth on   Exhibit H-2  , titled  Omega Delinquency Report. 
Subservicer shall provide all Exposure Reports and Omega Delinquency Reports to Servicer by the
15 th  day of each month (or next Business Day immediately thereafter) for the preceding
month in order to ensure any Servicer related adjustments within two Business Days of notification
by the Servicer. In order to assist Subservicer in its preparation of the Exposure Report,
Servicer shall make available to Subservicer the MLR 253 report by the 10 th  day of each
month, or such earlier date as reasonably practicable. Changes to the form of the Exposure
Report or the Omega Delinquency Report shall only be made with the mutual consent of Servicer and
Subservicer.

(c) The Servicer reserves the right (but not the obligation) to elect to administer certain
default servicing activities relating to any Defaulted Mortgage Loan or REO Property upon written
notice to the Subservicer (the term  Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan  shall also include any such

20 

Defaulted Mortgage Loan or REO Property). As to any REO Property, the Subservicer shall provide
the Servicer with written notification of the related foreclosure sale within one (1) Business Day
after the date of such foreclosure sale. The Servicer shall notify the Subservicer within seven
(7) Business Days after receiving such notification from the Subservicer in the event the Servicer
elects to administer default servicing activities relating to the REO Property. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, at any time during the period in which a Mortgage Loan is delinquent, the Servicer
may provide written notice to the Subservicer of the Servicer s election to administer default
servicing activities in connection with an REO Property after the foreclosure sale. If the
Servicer elects to assume such activities as set forth above, the Servicer shall not be obligated
for any fees or commissions due any agent previously retained by the Subservicer or its agent. In
accordance with such notice from the Servicer, the Subservicer shall forward to the Servicer all
relevant documentation relating to such Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan and shall comply with all
reasonable transfer requests of Servicer. Upon the transfer from the Subservicer to the Servicer
of the relevant files and documentation, the Servicer shall commence default servicing activities
in accordance with the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement or the related Private Investor
Agreement and shall report the status of such Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loans to the Subservicer
on a monthly basis. In the event a Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan is reinstated and reinstatement
funds are received by the Servicer, (i) the Servicer shall remit such funds to the Subservicer in
accordance with Subservicer s wire instructions or other payment instructions, (ii) provided that
the Servicer has complied with the requirements of subpart (i) hereof, the Subservicer shall post
such funds to the account no later than the next Business Day, (iii) the Subservicer shall again be
fully responsible for the subservicing for such Mortgage Loan, (iv) the Servicer shall forward the
related mortgage file and all other relevant documentation to Subservicer, and (v) Servicer shall
comply with all reasonable transfer requests of Subservicer. In the event a Complex Defaulted
Mortgage Loan reaches final disposition and Liquidation Proceeds are received by the Servicer, (i)
the Servicer shall deposit such funds, (ii) the Servicer shall notify the Subservicer of receipt of
such Liquidation Proceeds, (iii) the Subservicer shall post non-monetary transactions to bring the
account balance to zero no later than the next Business Day, and (iv) the Servicer shall be
responsible for preparation of the Officer Certificate and shall retain the related mortgage file
and all other relevant documentation.

(d) In connection with any expenses incurred by Servicer for any Complex Defaulted Mortgage
Loan under this   Section 2.07  , upon receipt of any related invoices, Servicer shall forward
such invoices to Subservicer for payment in the ordinary course of business. Subservicer shall
ensure payment of such invoices within    * * *    and shall be responsible for late fees incurred with
respect to invoices received by Subservicer   * * *   prior to the due date thereof.

(e) Subservicer Advances will be funded by Subservicer. All Subservicer Advances shall be
approved by Servicer as defined in the Operations Guide. Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer for
any Subservicer Advances on a monthly basis. Subservicer shall provide a reconciliation
schedule of Subservicer Advances in the form of   Exhibit F  , in both hard copy and electronic
format, to the Servicer by the fifth Business Day of each month. Servicer shall have three (3)
Business Days to review the reconciliation and either approve it or advise Subservicer of errors.
Servicer and Subservicer shall cooperate and exert reasonable efforts to correct any errors.
Servicer and

21 

Subservicer shall remit funds to each other, as applicable, within one (1) Business
Day of either the approval of the reconciliation or the correction of any errors detected

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

22 

by the appropriate party. In any event, a mutually agreed upon amount must be remitted to the
appropriate party no later than the 20 th  day of the month (or next Business Day
immediately thereafter).

Section 2.08.    Title, Management and Disposition of REO Properties  . (a) If title to a
Mortgaged Property is acquired in foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure, the deed or
certificate of sale shall be taken in the name of the applicable Private Investor (unless otherwise
directed by the Private Investor), or in the name of MLCC if the Mortgage Loan is subject to a
Pooling and Servicing Agreement. The Servicer shall not cause title to be acquired to any
Mortgaged Property, or proceed with the management of any REO Property, for which the Subservicer
has Knowledge that such Mortgaged Property or REO Property is affected by hazardous waste, but
shall promptly notify the Servicer of such condition, and thereafter follow such reasonable
directions as the Servicer may provide. The Subservicer shall either itself, or through an agent
approved by the Servicer (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), manage, conserve,
protect and operate each REO Property (and may temporarily rent the same) in accordance with the
Servicer s direction.

(b) The income received from the management of any REO Property shall be applied as a
reduction in any existing Subservicing Advance for the related REO property or as a credit balance
to the Subservicing Advance for the related property within one (1) Business Day of receipt.

(c) If the Subservicer elects to dispose of an REO Property without utilizing the services of
an agent, the Subservicer shall notify the Servicer of its receipt of any and all bona fide offers
to purchase that REO Property. Each such REO Disposition shall be carried out by the Subservicer
at such price, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Servicer shall approve in writing.

(d) If the Subservicer utilizes the services of an approved agent to dispose of an REO
Property, the Subservicer shall provide the Servicer with a copy of such agent s marketing plan,
which shall include, but not be limited to, (i) the marketing time period, (ii) an estimate of the
costs of any repairs or improvements, (iii) the lowest acceptable sale price for the REO Property
and (iv) other proposed terms and conditions of sale. Within seven (7) Business Days after receipt
of any such marketing plan, the Servicer shall review the plan and notify the Subservicer in
writing as to whether the terms and conditions thereof are acceptable to the Servicer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Servicer s failure to provide such written notification to the
Subservicer within such seven (7) Business Day period shall not be deemed acceptance of the
marketing plan. If the terms, conditions, and lowest acceptable sale price set forth in the
marketing plan are acceptable to the Servicer, the REO Disposition shall be carried out by the
Subservicer in accordance with the terms thereof. If the Subservicer receives a bona fide offer to
purchase an REO Property and would like to accept the offer, but the offer is outside the
parameters of the approved marketing plan, the Subservicer shall provide the Servicer with written
notification of the terms and conditions of the offer. Within seven (7) Business Days after
receiving the terms and conditions of such offer, the Servicer shall review the offer and

23 

notify the Subservicer in writing as to whether such terms and conditions are acceptable to
the Servicer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Servicer s failure to provide such written
notification to the Subservicer within such seven (7) Business Day period shall not be deemed
acceptance of the offer.

(e) The Subservicer, upon an REO Disposition, shall be entitled to reimbursement for any
related unreimbursed Subservicer Advances from proceeds received in connection with such REO
Disposition. If the proceeds from an REO Disposition are insufficient to reimburse the Subservicer
for any related unreimbursed Subservicer Advances, the Subservicer shall be entitled to
reimbursement from the Servicer by submission of an Officer Certificate as described in the
Operations Guide. All proceeds from an REO Disposition, net of any reimbursement to the
Subservicer as provided above, shall be remitted to the Servicer with the related Officer
Certificate as described in the Operations Guide.

Section 2.09.    Use of EDP  . Throughout the term of this Agreement and except as
otherwise provided in the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000, between Servicer
and Subservicer, Subservicer shall pay all costs and expenses associated with its use of, and
access to, the EDP system commonly referred to as  Nabanco . Such costs and expenses shall
include, but not be limited to, the cost and expenses associated with the maintenance, use and
service of such system and any third-party user or license fees. Approval of Servicer, which may
be withheld at Servicer s sole discretion, must be obtained by Subservicer prior to the development
of a new EDP and before the transfer of any Equity Loan to the new EDP. If Servicer approves such
development or transfer, the development and transfer shall be on such terms as mutually agreed
upon by the parties.

Section 2.10.    Payment of Taxes and Insurance  . (a)  Taxes . Subservicer shall
ensure that all real estate taxes are paid in connection with each Mortgaged Property to ensure
that the related lien of each Mortgage Loan remains in full force and effect and the priority
thereof is not impaired. The Subservicer shall be liable to the Servicer for any losses incurred
due to non-payment or untimely payment of taxes by the Subservicer.

(b)  Insurance . Subservicer shall ensure that at all times (i) a hazard insurance
policy which insures against loss by fire and by hazards included within the term  extended
coverage  is in place with respect to each Mortgage Property and that such policy is in an amount
acceptable to Servicer, (ii) such policy contains a standard mortgagee s clause with an appropriate
endorsement in favor of Servicer, and (iii) that it is otherwise at all times in compliance with
all insurance related provisions contained in the Pooling and Servicing Agreements. Subservicer
acknowledges that Master Servicer under the Pooling and Servicing Agreements has not procured and
does not intend to procure, any  mortgagee interest policy  as contemplated by the Pooling and
Servicing Agreements. The Subservicer shall be liable to the
Servicer for any losses incurred due to non-payment or untimely payment of insurance premiums
by the Subservicer.

Section 2.11.    Notice to Mortgagors  . Not less than fifteen (15) days before each
applicable Transfer Date, unless earlier notification is required by Applicable Requirements,

24 

Servicer and Subservicer shall jointly deliver to each applicable Mortgagor a letter advising the
Mortgagor of the transfer of subservicing contemplated herein. Such letters shall comply with all
Applicable Requirements, including, but not limited to, RESPA. At least thirty (30) days before
the first Transfer Date, Servicer and Subservicer shall review the form of the letter for
compliance with the Applicable Requirements. All costs of preparing and delivering such letters
shall be shared equally by Servicer and Subservicer.

Section 2.12.    Notice to Tax Service Provider  . (a)  Notices . Not less than
fifteen (15) days before each applicable Transfer Date for first lien Mortgage Loans, only Servicer
shall deliver written notices of the transfer of subservicing contemplated herein to TRETS. At
Subservicer s request, Servicer shall provide an officer s certificate to the effect that Servicer
has mailed such notices at least fifteen (15) days before each Transfer Date. Such notice shall
instruct TRETS to deliver, from and after each applicable Transfer Date, all applicable payments,
notices, bills, statements, records, files, histories, support documents, and other documents to
Subservicer.

(b)  Costs . Servicer shall be responsible for the cost of preparing and delivering the
notices described in this   Section 2.12  .

Section 2.13.    Notice to Insurance Companies and Payment of Insurance Premiums  . (a)
 Notices . Not less than fifteen (15) days before each applicable Transfer Date, Servicer
shall deliver written notices of the transfer of subservicing contemplated herein to each of
Servicer s hazard insurance Outsource Vendors. Servicer shall direct the Outsource Vendor to
forward all mail concerning the Mortgage Loans to the Subservicer.

(b)  Change of Mortgage Clauses . It shall be the responsibility of the Servicer to
ensure that all applicable hazard insurance policy mortgage clauses are changed to  Cendant
Mortgage Corporation, its successors and assigns .

(c)  Costs . Servicer shall be responsible for the cost of preparing and delivering the
notices described in this   Section 2.13  .

Section 2.14.    Tax Contracts  . (a) Servicer shall cause TRETS to work with
Subservicer s designated tax service provider to deliver a comprehensive ADDS tape (AB383) for all
first lien Mortgage Loans (other
than (i) Mortgage Loans secured by Mortgaged Properties in Guam and Puerto Rico and (ii) Co-op
Loans), whether escrowed or non-escrowed, no later than five (5) Business Days after the applicable
Transfer Date.

(b) With respect to all first lien Mortgage Loans other than (i) Mortgage Loans secured by
Mortgaged Properties in Guam and Puerto Rico and (ii) Co-op Loans, Servicer shall transfer the
related TRETS life-of-loan contracts to Subservicer s designated tax service provider on the
applicable Transfer Date. Within 60 days after each Transfer Date, Subservicer shall provide
Servicer with a listing of all such Mortgage Loans for which Subservicer s designated tax service
provider did not receive the anticipated tax contract information from TRETS. Servicer shall have
30 days after receiving the listing to reconcile it and, for each such Mortgage Loan that did not
have a

25 

life-of-loan tax service contract, shall remit to Subservicer (x) a fee of $   * * *    to
purchase a tax service contract or (y)    * * *    to purchase a tax service contract for such Mortgage
Loan.

Section 2.15.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.16.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.17.    Mortgage Loan Payment Record  . Subservicer shall maintain a Mortgage
Loan Payment Record (as such term is defined in the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement) in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

Section 2.18.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.19.    Post - Transfer Assumption Processing  . The Subservicer shall be
responsible for administering assumption requests directly with the Mortgagor, including, but not
limited to the sending of all applicable disclosures required by law, obtaining all necessary
financial information from the proposed new obligor, underwriting the new obligor, and obtaining
any additional documentation and execution of documents. The Subservicer shall process such
requests in accordance with the related Private Investor Agreement and Pooling and Servicing
Agreement, including, but not limited to, freezing lines of credit where required. Subservicer
shall be responsible for processing all loan origination functions of any assumption pursuant to
the Origination Agreement. The Subservicer shall thereafter be responsible for providing any
required notices to the applicable Private Investor and for providing the original assumption
agreement to the applicable document custodian.

Section 2.20.    Misapplied Payments and NSF  . Subservicer shall be responsible for
administering and correcting any payment misapplications, and any adjustments necessary due to the
return of payment checks for insufficient funds that occurred prior to the Transfer Date,
 provided  that if a misapplied payment that occurred before the relevant Transfer Date
cannot be reconciled and Subservicer incurs any cost or expense relating thereto, Servicer shall
reimburse Subservicer for the cost or expense incurred by Subservicer with respect to such
misapplied payment. Servicer agrees to use its good faith efforts to cooperate with Subservicer in
correcting misapplication errors that occur prior to the Transfer Date.

Section 2.21.    Tax Reporting  . Subservicer shall be responsible for the preparation and
filing of all reports required by the IRS of a mortgage loan servicer or subservicer for any
Mortgage Loan. To the extent Servicer has such documents in its possession, Servicer shall provide
to Subservicer photocopies

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

26 

of IRS Forms W-8 and W-9, as applicable, executed by the Mortgagor (or equivalent
documentation acceptable to Subservicer) for each Mortgage Loan upon request.

Section 2.22.      Reserved  .   

Section 2.23.    Flood Insurance Determination Contracts  . To the extent applicable,
Servicer shall obtain, at Servicer s sole cost and expense, before each applicable Transfer Date,
 life of loan  or  life-time  transferable flood insurance determination contracts on each Mortgage
Loan. Servicer shall assign to Subservicer, on or promptly following each applicable Transfer
Date, the related certified and guaranteed assignable flood insurance determination contracts
Servicer obtained for such Mortgage Loans. Servicer and Subservicer shall equally share
responsibility for any fees required to transfer such flood insurance determination contracts to
Subservicer.

Section 2.24.    Limited Powers of Attorney and Limited Authorized Signatories  . Servicer
agrees to provide Subservicer on the first Transfer Date with limited powers of attorney in the
agreed upon form attached hereto as   Exhibit I  .

Section 2.25.    Updated Exhibits and Schedules  . As soon as possible, and in any event
no later than five (5) Business Days after the applicable Transfer Date, Subservicer shall have
received from Servicer updated versions of each then-relevant exhibit and schedule hereto,
certified as being true and correct on behalf of Servicer by an authorized officer thereof, with
respect to the subservicing transferred on that date.

Section 2.26.    Outsource Vendor Contracts  . Subservicer shall not assume any of
Servicer s obligations under the Outsource Vendor contracts. A list of the Outsource Vendors is
attached as   Schedule 2.26  .

Section 2.27.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.28.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.29.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.30.    Servicer to Service Additional Collateral  . Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this Agreement, Servicer shall service and administer all Additional Collateral, it
being understood and agreed that only Servicer shall service and administer the related securities
accounts with respect to Additional Collateral Agreements.

Section 2.31.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.32.    Audit of ARM Loans  . Within ninety (90) days after the first Transfer
Date, Subservicer may perform an audit of a sample of   * * *   the ARM Loans transferred on such
Transfer Date, comparing the Mortgage Note with Subservicer s EDP. Each such audit shall be based
on a random sample, the selection methodology for which shall be approved by Servicer

27 

reasonably in
advance of such data audit. At least two (2) Business Days before the commencement of any such
data audit, Subservicer shall provide Servicer with a list of the loan numbers selected for such
data audit. Should the results of such audit reflect a financial error rate    * * *    or a
non-financial error rate   * * *  , subject to Servicer s reasonable verification of Subservicer s
audit results, Subservicer, or Subservicer s subcontractor, shall complete, at Servicer s sole cost
and expense, an audit of all ARM Loans and related interest adjustments and calculations.
Subservicer and Servicer shall mutually agree on the scope, the procedures to be used, and (subject
to reasonability) the price of conducting such ARM Loan audit. Subservicer shall report the
results of such ARM Loan audit including all recommended corrective actions to Servicer. Servicer
shall reimburse Subservicer promptly upon receipt of related invoices for all costs and expenses
incurred by Subservicer in undertaking the audit. Subservicer and Servicer shall jointly agree on
any corrective action to be undertaken, the costs of which shall be borne exclusively by Servicer.
Any decision by Subservicer not to conduct an audit as provided herein shall not affect any rights
Subservicer may have under this Agreement, nor in any way limit any of Servicer s representations
or warranties.

Section 2.33.    Transfer of Mortgage Loans  . (a) The Subservicer acknowledges that from
time to time the Servicer intends to sell and/or assign to various Subsequent Purchasers all or a
portion of the Mortgage Loans that are subject to this Agreement, thereby effecting one or more
Whole Loan Transfers or Pass-Through Transfers of such Mortgage Loans. The Subservicer
acknowledges that the Servicer shall have the right to sell and assign any or all of the Mortgage
Loans, and the Subservicer shall recognize the related Subsequent Purchaser as the owner of such
Mortgage Loans. With respect to each Whole Loan Transfer and each Pass-Through Transfer, as
applicable, entered into by the Servicer or any Affiliate of the Servicer, the Subservicer agrees
to assist the Servicer in various capacities, and shall, among other things:

(i) cooperate fully and negotiate in good faith with the Servicer, any custodian that
maintains documents or Mortgage Loan Documents on behalf of the Servicer, any prospective
Subsequent Purchaser, any Rating Agency or any party to any agreement executed in connection
with such Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer with respect to all reasonable
requests and due diligence procedures and shall use its best efforts to facilitate such
Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer;  provided ,  however , that if the
information provided by the Subservicer to satisfy any such request or to comply with any
such procedure is not required by any other Transaction Agreement, or is not contained in a
standard report produced by the Subservicer s EDP, any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by the Subservicer to provide such information shall be paid by the Servicer.
However, it is agreed that the Servicer shall provide notice to Subservicer of a: (i) Whole
Loan Transfer within five (5) Business Days of the related trade date and (ii) Pass-Through Transfer within five
(5) Business Days of the submission of a loan pool to the Rating Agencies;

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED . 

28 

(ii) execute as servicer or sub-servicer, as the case may be, all applicable agreements to
be executed (or amend existing contracts, as necessary) in connection with such Whole Loan
Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer that govern the servicing and administration of the
Mortgage Loans (and any agreements and other documents incidental thereto, including
officer s certificates) as the Servicer reasonably requests. The Subservicer shall, as the
Servicer may request, either (A) enter into such agreements with the Servicer, in which case
the Servicer s rights and obligations thereunder shall be freely assignable and delegable to
the Subsequent Purchaser without any further action or consent by the Subservicer, or (B)
enter into such agreement directly with the Subsequent Purchaser. The governing documents
for Pass-Through Transfers shall contain provisions customarily included in secondary
mortgage market securitized transactions with respect to like assets that provide for the
public issuance or private placement of securities that (a) evidence an interest in mortgage
loans like the Mortgage Loans and (b) one or more classes of which may be rated  AA/Aa  or
higher by the Rating Agencies, provided that no such agreement or amendment materially
increases the existing duties of the Subservicer under the Transaction Agreements;

(iii) restate as of the closing date for a Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer
the representations and warranties set forth in the Origination Agreement for the benefit of
the Subsequent Purchaser;  provided ,  however , that the Subservicer may
qualify any such representation or warranty to reflect an event or circumstance that arose
after the date hereof and that would cause such representation or warranty to be inaccurate,
so long as such event or circumstance is not a breach by the Subservicer of any term or
condition of any Transaction Agreement.

(iv) deliver to the Servicer or its Affiliates, at the expense of the Servicer, for
inclusion in any prospectus, private placement memorandum or other offering material or
disclosure document such written information regarding the Subservicer or its Affiliates as
shall be reasonably requested by the Servicer or its Affiliate (including but not limited to
its audited financial statements, and its mortgage loan delinquency, foreclosure and loss
experience) and indemnify and hold harmless the Servicer and any Affiliate of the Servicer
for any and all liabilities, losses and expenses arising under the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, in connection with any material misstatement contained in such written
information or any omission of a material fact the inclusion of which was necessary to make
such written information not misleading;

(v) deliver to the Servicer, and to any Person designated by the Servicer, the
Subservicer s audited financial statements and such written information provided by the
Subservicer or its Affiliates (including but not limited to the information referred to in
clause (iv) above and as set forth in   Section 11.02   of this Agreement) as shall be
reasonably requested by the Servicer or its Affiliates;

(vi) deliver to the Servicer, and to any Person designated by the Servicer, at the
expense of the Servicer, such opinions of counsel, if any, as are customarily

29 

delivered by servicers in connection with Whole Loan Transfers or Pass-Through
Transfers;

(vii) provide, on an ongoing basis from information obtained through its servicing of
the Mortgage Loans, any information necessary to enable the  tax matters person  for any
REMIC in a Pass-Through Transfer, including any master servicer or trustee acting in such
capacity, to perform its obligations in accordance with applicable law and customary
secondary mortgage market standards for securitized transactions, one or more classes of
securities issued in which are rated  AA/Aa  or higher by the Rating Agencies; provided,
however, that if such information is not required by any other Transaction Agreement, or is
not contained in a standard report produced by the Subservicer s EDP, any set-up costs
incurred by the Subservicer to provide such information shall be borne by the Servicer; and

(viii) maintain any applicable custodial account and escrow account in accordance with
the requirements of the Rating Agencies for a securitized transaction, one or more classes
of securities issued in which are rated  AA/Aa  or higher, which requirements may include
maintaining such custodial account and escrow account with a depository institution the
long-term unsecured debt rating of which is rated  AA/Aa  or higher by the Rating Agencies.

(b) Notwithstanding clause (ii) of   Section 2.33(a)  , no agreements, consents or
modifications referred to therein shall contain any provisions that reduce the Subservicing Fee as
to any Mortgage Loan or that affect the calculation of the Subservicing Fee as to any Mortgage Loan
in a manner that is materially adverse to the Subservicer. All Mortgage Loans not sold or
transferred pursuant to a Whole Loan Transfer or Pass-Through Transfer shall be subject to this
Agreement and shall continue to be serviced and administered in accordance with the terms hereof
and with respect thereto this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 2.34.    Mortgage Loan Information  . (a) From and after each applicable Transfer
Date, Subservicer agrees that it shall supply on a daily basis (i) the Loan Information for each
Mortgagor to Servicer and (ii) aggregate loan information on the Mortgage Loans, on a daily basis
in accordance with the specific timing, transfer, and other requirements as may from time to time
be designated by Servicer,  provided  that such information is, as of the date hereof, being
generated by EDP.

(b) Servicer and Subservicer acknowledge that, to the best of their respective knowledge,
their respective obligations to provide Information Sharing Notices and to supply the Loan
Information are permitted by, and comply with, the Applicable Requirements. The parties
acknowledge that there has been a change in the Applicable Requirements that may affect either (i)
the dissemination of the Loan Information from Subservicer to Servicer, (ii) the manner in which
the Loan Information is disseminated from Subservicer to Servicer, or (iii) the form, content, or
delivery of the required form of Information Sharing Notice. The parties hereto shall work in good
faith to address the effect of this change in the Applicable Requirements and to
resolve the same in a manner that is reasonably acceptable in good faith to both parties and
that

30 

will allow Subservicer to continue to supply to Servicer as much of the Loan Information as is
then possible given the applicable change in the Applicable Requirements.

(c) Servicer acknowledges and agrees that it will not use or disseminate the Loan Information
in violation of the Applicable Requirements.

(d) Servicer shall indemnify Subservicer against any and all Losses incurred by Subservicer to
the extent that such Losses result from, are caused by, or arise out of Subservicer s compliance
with   Section 2.34(a)   with respect to the Mortgage Loans subserviced pursuant to this
Agreement.

Section 2.35.     Reserved  .   

Section 2.36.    Subservicer Reports  . In addition to any other reports required pursuant
to the terms of this Agreement, during the term of this Agreement, Subservicer shall furnish any
reports or documentation that the Servicer may reasonably request. Reports requested may include
reports not specified or otherwise required by this Agreement or reports required to comply with
any regulations regarding any supervisory agents or examiners of the Servicer. All reports shall
be delivered in accordance with the Servicer s reasonable instructions and directions. The
Subservicer agrees to execute and deliver all such instruments and take all such action as the
Servicer, from time to time, may reasonably request in order to effectuate the purpose and to carry
out the terms of this Agreement. To the extent any such report requested by Servicer is not a
standard report produced by EDP, any set-up or future incremental costs incurred by Subservicer for
such reports requested by Servicer shall be borne by Servicer.

Section 2.37.    Work Policy  . Personnel of either Party working on the premises of the
other Party (excluding in the case of Subservicer, premises of Servicer leased to Subservicer), and
all other Personnel required by Law or government rules or regulations, shall comply with the
safety, security and other regulations of the other Party generally applicable to its outside
contractors and Personnel particular to each work location, including, where applicable, internal
security department fingerprinting, photographing and screening processes. Personnel of a Party,
when deemed appropriate by the other Party, will be issued visitor identification cards. Each such
card will be surrendered by upon demand by the other Party or upon termination of this Agreement or
completion of the relevant MLCC Services. Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, Personnel of
each Party will observe the working hours, working rules, and holiday schedules of the other Party
while working on the other Party s premises (excluding in the case of Subservicer, premises of
Servicer leased to Subservicer). Each Party shall advise the other Party immediately in the event
that any Personnel with security access to any premises of the other Party (i) is no longer
assigned to perform MLCC Services, or (ii) is no longer employed by such Party.

Section 2.38.    Use of Hardware and Software  . In the event that Subservicer shall be
performing MLCC Services on behalf of Servicer and any third party utilizing common hardware and/or
Software, Servicer shall have the right, on reasonable notice to Subservicer and at Servicer s sole
cost and expense, to audit such hardware and Software to ensure segregation of

31 

MLCC Data from third
party data adequate to prevent unauthorized disclosure of MLCC Data to third parties, and to ensure
the security of MLCC Data in accordance with normal industry practices, provided that such audit
shall not disrupt Subservicer s ability to perform the MLCC Services.

Section 2.39.    Technical Architecture Standards  . On notice thereof, Subservicer shall
comply with all reasonable Servicer information management technical architecture standards related
to interfacing with Servicer systems, as identified and amended by Servicer from time to time.

Section 2.40.    Compliance with Policies  . Subservicer shall, upon notice thereof by
Servicer, comply with all of Servicer s commercially reasonable policies and procedures regarding
security and safeguarding of MLCC Data.

Section 2.41.    Continuation of MLCC Services  . Subservicer acknowledges that the
provision of MLCC Services is critical to the business and operations of Servicer. In the event of
a fee dispute between Servicer and Subservicer pursuant to which either Party in good faith
believes it is entitled to withhold payment of the disputed amount or for which either Party in
good faith believes payment is due, each Party shall continue to perform its obligations under the
Transaction Agreements, including continuing to pay undisputed amounts. Neither Party shall not
under any circumstances suspend or disrupt, or seek any injunctive or other equitable relief for
the purpose of suspending or disrupting, directly or indirectly, provision of the services to the
other Party under the Transaction Agreements or the normal business operations of the other Party.

ARTICLE IIA 
SERVICER S AND SUBSERVICER S OBLIGATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO PROCESSING MORTGAGE LOAN ADVANCES 

Section 2A.1    Check Transactions  . Subservicer and Servicer respectively hereby agree
to undertake the following obligations
related to the check writing privileges of Borrowers under the Mortgage Loan Documents for
Mortgage Loans:

(a)  Printing and Delivery of Checks . Upon receipt of a properly executed check
request from a Borrower, Subservicer shall arrange for the printing and delivery to such Borrower,
by overnight delivery service, of Checks (in the form approved in writing by Servicer) and related
checkbooks and check registers.

(b)  Payment for Mortgage Loan Advances by Check . Subservicer shall arrange, pursuant
to Servicer s direction, for the daily funding of settlement of Checks presented to Issuer for
collection. Subservicer shall arrange each day for funding of Issuer s settlement account with the
FRB in the amount of all Checks received from the FRB that day.

32 

(c)  Overextension of Credit Limit . Subservicer shall monitor the Outstanding Balance
with respect to each Mortgage Loan and shall cause to be returned for insufficient funds any Check
which exceeds the Available Credit under such Mortgage Loan (such Checks, in addition to those
described in   Section 2A.1(d)  , referred to as   Returned Checks  ). Subservicer shall
notify the Borrower with respect to such Returned Check that such Returned Check has been returned
for insufficient funds. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Subservicer may make payment on a Returned
Check that exceeds the Credit Limit of any Borrower on an exception basis if it has requested and
received written authorization from Servicer. Upon receipt of such a request from Subservicer,
Servicer shall, within two (2) Business Days, notify Subservicer of its approval or denial of such
request. Subservicer monthly shall provide Servicer with a report, with respect to Mortgage Loans
exceeding credit limits within the prior month, which report shall indicate current status
(including compliance with Credit Limit) of each such Mortgage Loan and shall otherwise be in a
form reasonably acceptable to Servicer.

(d)  Dishonoring of Checks . If a Check must be returned or dishonored for any reason
other than the reasons described in paragraph (c) above, including because of a limitation on
Mortgage Loan Advances imposed by Servicer, or by Subservicer on behalf of Servicer, due to a
Borrower Default or because of an apparent forgery of the Check, Subservicer or its agent shall
cause such Check to be returned or dishonored. Subservicer shall notify the Borrower with respect
to any such Returned Check.

(e)  Reimbursement of Subservicer . Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer in accordance
with the provisions of   Article VI   hereof for Subservicer s funding of Check settlement
pursuant to   Subsections 2A.  1(b)   and 2A.1(c)  .

(f)  Recovery of Checks . With respect to any terminated Mortgage Loan, Subservicer
shall send to the related Mortgagor a written request that such Mortgagor either return or destroy
any unused Checks in such Mortgagor s possession. If Subservicer receives any such Checks from
Mortgagors, Subservicer shall destroy such Checks.

(g)  Books and Records . Servicer may at any time request information from, and examine
the books and records of, Subservicer related to the processing or settlement of the
Checks. Subservicer shall maintain such records for at least such period as shall be required
by applicable law and regulation and shall provide to Servicer copies of all records or documents
related to the Checks as Servicer may request from time to time within two (2) Business Days of
receipt of such request. This right of inspection shall continue so long as Borrowers shall have
check writing privileges under the Mortgage Loans, and for a reasonable period of time following
the termination of such privileges. To the extent any information requested by Servicer under this
paragraph (g) is related to internal audits conducted by Servicer in the normal course of its
business, Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer for any and all costs and expenses incurred by
Subservicer in complying with such request. All other costs and expenses incurred in complying
with this paragraph (g) shall be borne by the Subservicer.

33 

Section 2A.2    Card Transactions  . Subservicer and Servicer hereby agree to undertake
the following obligations related to the card privileges of Borrowers under the Mortgage Loan
Documents for Mortgage Loans:

(a)  Embossing and Delivery of Cards . Upon receipt of a properly executed card request
from a Borrower, Subservicer shall arrange for the embossing and delivery to the Borrower of Cards
in such form as designated by the Servicer. Servicer shall be solely responsible for ensuring that
the form of the Cards satisfies the rules, regulations and other requirements of VISA   .

(b)  Requests for Authorization . Subservicer shall respond to all authorization
requests from merchants related to transactions involving Cards according to the rules and
regulations of VISA    and applicable laws and regulations. Subservicer shall disapprove
any request for authorization of a Card transaction (i) which exceeds a Borrower s Available
Credit, or (ii) which exceeds any other limitation on Mortgage Loan Advances imposed by Servicer of
which Subservicer has been informed, or by Subservicer on behalf of Servicer, because of a Borrower
Default. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Subservicer may approve authorization requests for Charges
which exceed the Available Credit of such Borrower on an exception basis if it has requested and
received written authorization from Servicer. Upon receipt of such a request from Subservicer,
Servicer shall, within two (2) Business Days, notify Subservicer of its approval or denial of such
request. Subservicer shall, on a monthly basis, provide Servicer with a report, in a form
reasonably acceptable to Servicer, with respect to Mortgage Loans exceeding credit limits within
the prior month, which report shall indicate current status (including compliance with Credit
Limit) of each such Mortgage Loan and shall otherwise be in a form reasonably acceptable to
Servicer.

(c)  Customer Inquiries . Subservicer shall respond to and otherwise handle Borrower
inquiries, requests and complaints concerning their Cards. Subservicer shall provide Borrowers
with both a toll free telephone number and an address for the purposes of reporting lost or stolen
Cards, requesting information about Charges, confirming the Borrower s Available Credit, and such
other purposes as the parties shall determine to be appropriate or desirable or as may be required
by applicable law and regulation.

(d)  VISA    Settlement . Subservicer or its agent shall maintain an
electronic link with VISA    for the purpose of obtaining information related to the
settlement of Charges and the processing of adjustments and exception items, including, without
limitation, chargebacks, returns, representments and reversals. Subservicer shall submit a
settlement report to Servicer and shall transfer funds to VISA    each day
VISA    settlement occurs in accordance with the provisions of   Article VI   hereof.

(e)  De-activation of Cards . Upon receipt of notice from Servicer that a Card has been
terminated or upon receipt of a direct request from a Borrower to terminate his or her Mortgage
Loan or Card or upon termination of an Mortgage Loan by Servicer or Subservicer, Subservicer shall
promptly take such actions as are necessary to prevent the authorization of any transaction
involving the Card following such termination. Subservicer shall use commercially reasonable

34 

efforts to retrieve and destroy or ensure the destruction of any Card with respect to a terminated
Mortgage Loan.

(f)  Books and Records . Subservicer shall provide access to Servicer at any time
during ordinary business hours to examine, audit and make copies of all books, records and
documents in Subservicer s possession related to the Cards. Subservicer shall maintain such
records for at least such periods as shall be required by applicable law and regulation, or by the
rules and regulations of VISA   , and shall provide to Servicer any original document
related to the Cards, as Servicer may request from time to time within five (5) Business Days of
receipt of such request. To the extent any information requested by Servicer under this paragraph
(f) is related to internal audits conducted by Servicer in the normal course of its business,
Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer for any and all costs and expenses incurred by Subservicer in
complying with such request. All other costs and expenses incurred in complying with this
paragraph (f) shall be borne by the Subservicer.

(g)  Chargebacks . Subservicer shall process chargebacks of Charges previously paid in
accordance with applicable law and regulation, and with the written rules and regulations of
VISA   . Subservicer shall manage the  VISA     Suspense Account according
to  VISA    chargeback guidelines and procedures as referenced in the Operations
Guide. Subservicer shall be responsible for unrecoverable losses due to Subservicer s failure to
comply with this   Section 2A.2(g)  .

Section 2A.3    Wire Transfers  . Subservicer hereby agrees to perform the following
services related to the wire transfer privileges, if any exist, of Borrowers under the Mortgage
Loan Documents for Mortgage Loans:

(a)  Processing of Wire Transfer Requests . Upon receiving a duly authorized request
from a Borrower for a wire transfer of funds as a Mortgage Loan Advance on the Mortgage Loan,
Subservicer shall arrange for a wire transfer of the requested amount (provided that such amount
does not exceed the Borrower s Available Credit and provided that Servicer, or Subservicer on
behalf of Servicer, has not imposed a limitation on Mortgage Loan Advances because of a Borrower
Default) as a Mortgage Loan Advance to the Mortgage Loan specified in the wire transfer
instructions from the Borrower.

(b)  Reimbursement of Subservicer . Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer in accordance
with   Article VI   hereof for the amount Subservicer has wire transferred on behalf of
Servicer to the Borrowers (or their designees).

Section 2A.4    Certified or Cashier s Checks  . Subservicer hereby agrees to provide
certified or cashier s check services to Borrowers.

(a)  Processing of Certified or Cashier s Check Requests . Subservicer and Servicer
agree that the certified or cashier s checks may be issued by Accommodation Party pursuant to an
agreement between Subservicer and Accommodation Party;  provided ,  however , that
Subservicer shall remain primarily liable to Servicer for the performance of the services by

  35 

Accommodation Party on behalf of Subservicer. Upon receiving a duly authorized request from a
Borrower for the issuance of a certified or cashier s check as a Mortgage Loan Advance on the
Borrower s Mortgage Loan, Subservicer shall arrange for Accommodation Party to issue a certified
or cashier s check of the requested amount (provided that such amount does not exceed the
Borrower s Available Credit and provided that Subservicer on behalf of Servicer has not imposed a
limitation on Mortgage Loan Advances because of a Borrower Default) as a Mortgage Loan Advance on
the Mortgage Loan and deliver such certified or cashier s check as specified in the certified check
request from the Borrower. Subservicer shall arrange payment to Accommodation Party with respect
to certified or cashier s checks issued by Accommodation Party on behalf of Subservicer.

(b)  Reimbursement of Subservicer . Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer in accordance
with   Article VI   hereof for the amounts Subservicer has paid to Accommodation Party for
issuance of the certified or cashier s checks for the Borrowers.

Section 2A.5    Customer Service  . (a) Subservicer shall perform such other customer
service functions related to the Mortgage Loans as the parties shall agree to from time to time,
including cancellation of lost or stolen Checks or Cards, processing of duly authorized stop
payment orders, preparation and mailing of periodic statements, notices and disclosures as provided
in   Sections 2A.8   and   2A.9  , and response to and investigation of Borrower inquiries,
requests, notices and complaints, all in accordance with   Section 4.14  , and with applicable
rules of any payment system through which Mortgage Loan Advances are processed. Subservicer will
take all necessary actions to ensure that its performance of all customer service functions related
to the Mortgage Loans are in compliance with   Section 4.14   . 

Section 2A.6    Security Procedures  . (a) Subservicer and Servicer shall, in
consultation with each other, mutually develop security procedures for the purpose of detecting
unauthorized, fraudulent, criminal or suspicious transactions related to the Mortgage Loans or
Mortgage Loan Advances. Subservicer shall utilize such procedures, with the cooperation of
Servicer, and shall take all reasonable and appropriate action to prevent losses with respect to
the Mortgage Loans or Mortgage Loan Advances, including, without limitation, maintaining lists of
lost or stolen Cards with VISA   .

(b) If Subservicer or Servicer determines that a fraud or other suspicious or criminal act
relating to a Mortgage Loan or Mortgage Loan Advance may have occurred, such party shall promptly
notify the other party. Subservicer shall investigate such alleged fraud or other criminal
activity and shall consult with Servicer regarding any investigation and prosecution of any such
fraud. The parties shall cooperate with each other in the pursuit of any such investigation or
prosecution and the filing of any such investigation or prosecution and the filing of any
applicable federal or state filings in respect thereof. Subservicer shall indemnify Servicer
against any and all losses from fraud or other criminal activity related to a Check or related to a
Card which losses (i) cannot be charged back to the merchant bank through VISA   , (ii)
were not perpetrated by Servicer or Servicer s employees or officers and (iii) arose as a direct
result of either (A) Subservicer s negligence or (B) Subservicer s noncompliance with any of its

  36 

obligations contained in   Article II   or   Article IIA  . Subservicer shall process
Provisional Credits on Equity Loans upon Servicer approval according to the Operations Guide. Any
Provisional Credit granted must be approved by Servicer. Subservicer shall fund the Provisional
Credit and handle the initial research and recovery in all cases of fraudulent activity occurring
on any Equity Loan. To ensure that daily Provisional Credit postings are properly identified,
reported and documented, Subservicer shall provide to Servicer by the fifth Business Day of each
month an aged reconciliation schedule of Provisional Credits in the form of   Exhibit N  .
Servicer shall have three (3) Business Days to review the reconciliation and either approve it or
advise Subservicer of errors. Servicer and Subservicer shall cooperate and exert reasonable
efforts to promptly correct any errors. Servicer will reimburse Subservicer in full for the
Provisional Credits in   Exhibit N  . Servicer and Subservicer shall remit funds to each other,
as applicable, within one (1) Business Day of either the approval of the reconciliation or the
correction of any errors detected by the appropriate party. In any event, a mutually agreed upon
amount must be remitted to the appropriate party no later than the 20 th  day of the month
(or next Business Day immediately thereafter). Subservicer shall provide Servicer with Provisional
Credit documentation on request.

Section 2A.7    Subservicer to Comply with Servicer s  Affiliate Transactions 23A/23B 
Procedures  . Subservicer shall at the times under this Agreement comply with Servicer s written
procedures for complying with Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act which restricts the
payment of Checks, and Subservicer shall notify Servicer of any  covered transactions,  as said
term is defined in Servicer s written procedures. Such procedures are attached hereto as
  Exhibit B   (the   23A/B Procedures  ). Servicer represents and warrants that, as of
the date hereof, Servicer complies with the 23A/B Procedures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the representation contained in the immediately preceding sentence is inaccurate as of the date
made as to any specific part of the 23A/B Procedures (the   Non-Complying Procedure  ),
Subservicer shall not be obligated to comply with such Non-Complying Procedure to the extent that
(i) Servicer does not comply with such Non-Complying Procedure as of the date hereof and (ii)
Subservicer is not in compliance with such Non-Complying Procedure as of the date such inaccuracy
is discovered;  provided , that upon discovery of the inaccuracy of such representation,
Subservicer shall promptly notify Servicer in writing of such inaccuracy and shall indicate in such
notice the Non-Complying Procedure. Within five (5)
Business Days after receipt of such notice, Servicer shall notify Subservicer of whether
Servicer desires Subservicer to follow such Non-Complying Procedure. If Servicer notifies
Subservicer that it desires Subservicer to follow such Non-Complying Procedure, Subservicer shall
have the right to propose an adjustment to the Subservicing Fee in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Section 17.04(d). For the avoidance of doubt, nothing contained in this Section 2A.7
shall relieve Subservicer s obligation to subservice the Mortgage Loans in accordance with
applicable law.

Section 2A.8    Notices and Disclosures  . Subservicer shall provide to each Mortgagor
such notices and disclosure statements and such updates and amendments thereto in conformance with
Applicable Requirements.

37 

Section 2A.9    Monthly Statements  . Each calendar month, Subservicer shall prepare and
distribute to each Mortgagor an account statement in such format as required by applicable state
and federal laws and regulations detailing all activity related to such Mortgagor s Mortgage Loan
for the immediately prior billing period in a form satisfactory to Servicer, including all Check,
Card and certified and cashier s check transactions and wire transfers made with respect to such
Mortgage Loan, interest accrued during such month, the annual percentage rate with respect to such
interest, all payments of interest and principal during such month, and all fees imposed during
such month, the minimum amount due and payable by the Mortgagor, and such other information as
Servicer may provide from time to time, or as may be required to be provided by applicable state
and federal laws and regulations.

Section 2A.10    Credit Balance Checks  . Each calendar month Subservicer shall prepare
and distribute credit balance checks in accordance with the Applicable Requirements and, to the
extent not inconsistent therewith, the provisions outlined in the Operations Guide.

ARTICLE III  
  SERVICER REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  

In addition to representations and warranties, if any, made elsewhere in this Agreement,
Servicer represents and warrants to Subservicer as of the date hereof and each applicable Transfer
Date, as follows:

Section 3.01.    Organization and Good Standing  . Servicer is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Servicer has in full force and effect (without notice of possible suspension, revocation or
impairment) all required qualifications, permits, approvals, licenses, and registrations, or
exemptions therefrom, to conduct all activities in all jurisdictions in which its activities with
respect to the Mortgage Loans require it to be qualified or licensed.

Section 3.02.    Authority and Capacity; Ordinary Course  . Servicer has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to carry on its business
as it is now being conducted, to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to perform all of its
obligations hereunder. Servicer does not believe, nor does it have any cause or reason to believe,
that it cannot perform each and every covenant contained in this Agreement.

Section 3.03.    Effective Agreement  . The execution, delivery, and performance of this
Agreement by Servicer and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and
validly authorized by all necessary corporate, shareholder, or other action by Servicer; this
Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Servicer; and this Agreement is a
valid and legally binding agreement of Servicer, enforceable against Servicer in accordance with
its respective terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting generally the
enforcement of creditors  rights and the discretion of a court to grant specific performance of
contracts.

38 

Section 3.04.    No Conflict  . Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement, nor
the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor compliance with its respective terms
and conditions shall (a) violate, conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a default
under, be prohibited by, or require any additional approval under any terms, conditions, or
provisions of Servicer s Certificate of Incorporation or by-laws, or any other similar corporate or
organizational documents of Servicer; any mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, loan or credit
agreement, or other agreement or instrument to which Servicer is now a party or by which it is
bound with the exception of any agreement or instrument relating to a Third Party Consent; or any
law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment or decree of any governmental authority
applicable to Servicer; or (b) result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or
encumbrance of any material nature upon any of the properties or assets of Servicer.

Section 3.05.    Approvals and Compliance  . Servicer is approved and in good standing
with each Trustee and Insurer, and holds all licenses, approvals, permits, and other
authorizations, or exemptions therefrom, required under Applicable Requirements to originate, if
Servicer was the Originator, and to service the Mortgage Loans.

Section 3.06.    Servicer Advances  . The Servicer Advances and Interest Advances are
valid and subsisting amounts owing to Servicer, are carried on the books of Servicer at values
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are not subject to any
set-offs or claims by the Mortgagor arising from acts or omissions of Servicer, and are recoverable
in the normal course of business or are made in accordance with Applicable Requirements.   

Section 3.07.    Insurance  . Error and omissions and fidelity insurance coverage, in the amounts required by the
applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement, is in effect with respect to Servicer and will be
maintained with respect to the related Mortgage Loans until such time as Servicer is no longer the
Servicer under the related Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

Section 3.08.    Litigation  . There is no litigation, claim, demand, proceeding or
governmental investigation existing or pending, or to the Knowledge of Servicer, threatened, nor is
there any order, injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Servicer that could (i)
have a material adverse effect upon the performance by Servicer of its obligations under this
Agreement or (ii) to Servicer s Knowledge, result in any material loss or liability to Subservicer.
Further, to Servicer s Knowledge, there is no meritorious basis for any such litigation, claim,
demand, proceeding, or governmental investigation.

Section 3.09.    Financial Condition of Servicer  . Neither Servicer, its parent, nor any
of its subsidiaries is in bankruptcy, receivership or conservatorship. Servicer has the requisite
financial resources and ability to meet its obligations under this Agreement, including, but not
limited to, any and all indemnification and/or repurchase obligations.

Section 3.10.    Compliance with Pooling and Servicing Agreements and Private Investor
Agreements  . Servicer has complied in all material respects with the covenants,

39 

conditions, and
agreements applicable to it under the Pooling and Servicing Agreements and agreements applicable to
it under the Private Investor Agreements.

ARTICLE IV  
  SUBSERVICER REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS  

In addition to representations and warranties, if any, made elsewhere in this Agreement,
Subservicer represents and warrants to Servicer as of the date hereof and each applicable Transfer
Date, as follows:

Section 4.01.    Due Incorporation and Good Standing  . Subservicer is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of New Jersey.
Subservicer has in full force and effect (without notice of possible suspension, revocation or
impairment) all required qualifications, permits, approvals, licenses, and registrations, or
exemption therefrom, to conduct all activities in all jurisdictions in which its activities with
respect to the Mortgage Loans require it to be qualified or licensed.

Section 4.02.    Authority and Capacity; Ordinary Course  . Subservicer has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to carry on its
business as it is now being conducted, to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to perform all of
its obligations thereunder. Subservicer does not believe, nor does it have any cause or reason to
believe, that it cannot perform each and every covenant contained in this Agreement.

Section 4.03.    Effective Agreement  . The execution, delivery and performance of this
Agreement by Subservicer and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly
and validly authorized by all necessary corporate, shareholder or other action by Subservicer; this
Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Subservicer; and this Agreement is a
valid and legally binding agreement of Subservicer, enforceable against Subservicer in accordance
with its respective terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting generally
the enforcement of creditors  rights and the discretion of a court to grant specific performance of
contracts.

Section 4.04.    No Conflict  . Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement, nor
the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor compliance with their respective
terms and conditions shall (a) violate, conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a
default under, be prohibited by or require any additional approval under any terms, conditions or
provisions of Subservicer s articles of incorporation or by-laws or any other similar corporate or
organizational document of Subservicer; any mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, loan or credit
agreement or other agreement or instrument to which Subservicer is now a party or by which it is
bound; or any law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment or decree of any governmental
authority applicable to Subservicer; or (b) result in the creation or imposition of any lien,
charge or encumbrance of any material nature upon any of the properties or assets of Subservicer.

40 

Section 4.05.    Approvals and Compliance  . Subservicer holds all licenses, approvals,
permits and other authorizations, or exemptions therefrom, required under Applicable Requirements
to assume responsibility for subservicing the Mortgage Loans.

Section 4.06.    Litigation  . There is no litigation, claim, demand, proceeding or
governmental investigation existing or pending, or to the Knowledge of Subservicer, threatened, nor
is there any order, injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Subservicer that could
(i) have a material adverse effect upon the performance by Subservicer of its obligations under
this Agreement or (ii) to Subservicer s Knowledge, result in any material loss or liability to
Servicer. Further, to Subservicer s Knowledge, there is no meritorious basis for any such
litigation, claim, demand, proceeding, or governmental investigation.

Section 4.07.    Agency Approval  . Subservicer has been approved by GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC
and will remain approved as an  eligible seller/servicer  of residential mortgage loans as provided
in GNMA, FNMA, or FHLMC guidelines and in good standing. Subservicer has not received any
notification from GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC that Subservicer is not in compliance with the requirements
of the approved  seller/servicer  status. Subservicer is a mortgagee approved by the Secretary of
HUD pursuant to Section 203 and 211 of the National Housing Act. Subservicer has not received any
notification from HUD that Subservicer is not in compliance with the requirements of the approved
mortgagee status.

Section 4.08.    Servicing Compliance  . The servicing practices to be used by Subservicer
under the Private Investor Agreements and Pooling and Servicing Agreements are, and shall remain,
in all material respects in compliance with all Applicable Requirements, including without
limitation, all federal, state and local laws, rules, all regulations and requirements in
connection therewith, and FNMA guidelines, as applicable.

Section 4.09.    No Inquiries  . Subservicer has not received written notice from or on
behalf of FHA, HUD, FDIC, FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA, advising Subservicer of its failure to comply with
applicable servicing or claims procedures, or resulted in a request for repurchase of mortgage
loans or indemnification in connection with any mortgage loans.

Section 4.10.    Contingency Plan  . Subservicer has in place a contingency plan that will
enable it to perform its obligations under this Agreement in all material respects, at another
location within one (1) Business Days in the event its primary location is rendered inoperative as
a result of a natural or other disaster or emergency, and once Subservicer relocates to its backup
site, it shall make arrangements to connect Servicer to Subservicer s backup EDP and provide
continued service as stated in this Agreement, provided that Subservicer has granted Servicer
access to its primary EDP.

Section 4.11.    Licenses and Approvals  . Subservicer maintains and shall maintain, in
good standing, all licenses and approvals necessary to subservice the Mortgage Loans and maintains
and shall at all times maintain the capital requirements imposed by the licensing or approving
entities having jurisdiction over Subservicer. Subservicer has filed applications for all

41 

applicable licenses and qualifications to do business and to subservice the Mortgage Loans in the
U.S. Virgin Islands.

Section 4.12.    Fidelity and E O Insurance  . Subservicer maintains and shall at all times maintain error and omissions and fidelity
insurance coverage of the type and in the amounts required by the applicable Pooling and Servicing
Agreement or the applicable Private Investor Agreement.

Section 4.13.    Sufficiency of Systems and Personnel  . On and after the Transfer Date,
Subservicer shall have and shall at all times maintain during the term of this Agreement,
sufficient systems, including but not limited to EDP, and trained and experienced personnel in
place to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

Section 4.14.    Compliance with Laws  . For so long as, and to the extent that,
Subservicer subservices the Mortgage Loans, Subservicer will continue to comply with each
applicable federal, state, or local, law, statute, and ordinance, and any rule, regulation, or
order issued thereunder, pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement, including, but not
limited to, usury, RESPA, Consumer Credit Reporting Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, Regulation B, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, Fair Housing Act, Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z, Flood Disaster
Protection Act of 1973, and any applicable regulations related thereto, and such other fair
housing, anti-redlining, equal credit opportunity, truth-in-lending, real estate settlement
procedures, fair credit reporting, and every other prohibition against unlawful discrimination in
residential mortgage lending or governing consumer credit, and all state consumer credit statutes
and regulations, as amended. In the event Servicer has a reasonable good faith belief in
Subservicer s non-compliance with this   Section 4.14   and upon Servicer s written request,
Subservicer shall deliver to Servicer reasonable evidence of compliance with any of the
requirements of this   Section 4.14  .

Section 4.15.    Financial Condition of Subservicer  . Neither Subservicer, its parent,
nor any of its subsidiaries is in bankruptcy, receivership or conservatorship. Subservicer has the
requisite financial resources and ability to meet its obligations under this Agreement, including,
but not limited to, any and all indemnification and/or repurchase obligations.

ARTICLE IVA 
MUTUAL REPRESENTATIONS 

Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the other Party as follows:

Section 4A.01 .   Kickbacks  . No employee, agent or representative of the other Party
has been offered, shall be offered, has received, or shall receive, directly or indirectly, from
such Party, any gratuities, merchandise, cash, services benefit, fee, commission, dividend, gift,
or other inducements or consideration of any kind in connection with this Agreement.

42 

Section 4A.02 .   Government Officials  . No person employed by such Party in connection
with the performance of its obligations under this Agreement is an official of the government of
any foreign country, or of any agency thereof, and no part of any moneys or consideration paid to
such Party hereunder shall accrue for the benefit of any such official.

Section 4A.03 .   No Relation  . No individual who will receive specific compensation
from such Party as a result of the execution of this Agreement is related to any public official or
official of any issuer of municipal securities. For purposes of this Section, the term  official
of an issuer of municipal securities  means any person who is an incumbent, candidate or successful
candidate (a) for elective office of any issuer which office is directly or indirectly responsible
for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer
for municipal securities business by such issuer, or (b) for any elective office of a state or of
any political subdivision, which office has authority to appoint any official(s) of such issuer.
The term  related  applies when a person is related by blood or marriage.

ARTICLE V  
  REMITTANCES AND REPORTING  

Section 5.01.    Remittances  . (a) With respect to all Mortgage Loans that are subject
to a Pooling and Servicing Agreement, the Servicer shall remit to the Trustee all amounts due
pursuant to each Pooling and Servicing Agreement as set forth on   Exhibit A  . Subservicer
shall provide to the Trustee (with a copy to Servicer) all monthly certificates required to be sent
to the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Pooling and Servicing Agreements
(  Distribution Certificates  ). Subservicer agrees to send to the Trustee (with a copy to
Servicer) any and all Distribution Certificates on or before the date on which the Distribution
Certificates are to be sent to the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Pooling and
Servicing Agreements.

(b) With respect to all Mortgage Loans that are subject to a Private Investor Agreement, the
Servicer shall remit to each Private Investor all amounts due pursuant to the applicable Private
Investor Agreements except for those Private Investors who elect to have the Subservicer remit
directly to them under the same terms and conditions as set forth in   Article VI  ;
 provided ,  however , that Subservicer shall only remit funds directly to a Private
Investor on the day(s) such Private Investor is entitled to receive such remittances in accordance
with the terms of the applicable Private Investor Agreement. On all other days, Subservicer shall
not directly remit funds to any Private Investor and shall comply in all respects with  Article VI .
In no event shall Subservicer remit funds directly to any Private Investor that shall not have made
such an election on or prior to June 30, 2001.

Section 5.02.    Reports to Servicer  . Subservicer will provide all daily, weekly, monthly and annual reports to the Servicer as
set forth on   Exhibit K   ,  provided that such reports are being generated as of the date
hereof.

Section 5.03.    Subservicer to Deliver Officer s Certificates and Participation Reports to
Servicer  . With respect to all Mortgage Loans, the following provisions shall apply:

43 

(a) Upon final disposition of a Defaulted Mortgage Loan, the Subservicer shall deliver to the
Servicer an Officer s Certificate in the form of   Exhibit 5.03(a)  . Original proceeds checks
or funds equal to net proceeds and copies of original proceeds checks should be attached, along
with an EDP Participation Report. These documents should be submitted within five (5) days after
the date:

(i) of receipt of any proceeds from any foreclosure sale at which a third party
purchased a Mortgage Property (Third Party sale);

(ii) of the closing of any sale of a Mortgaged Property for an amount less than the
total outstanding indebtedness owing on the related Mortgage Loan (Short Sale);

(iii) of the closing of any sale of an REO Property (REO Sale);

(iv) on which the Subservicer accepts, as payment in full on a Mortgage Loan, an
amount less than the total outstanding indebtedness owing on such Mortgage Loan (Negotiated
Payoff);

(v) of decision to charge off the account in full (Direct Charge-Off);

(vi) of decision to charge off the account in full due to insufficient equity in the
property (Insufficient Equity); or

(vii) on which the Subservicer recoups previously underestimated Subservicer Advances,
or repays previously overestimated Subservicer Advances, set forth on any Officer s
Certificate previously delivered to the Servicer.

(b) The Subservicer shall deliver an Officer s Certificate to the Servicer within three (3)
Business Days after the Subservicer determines that it has made, or would be making, a
Nonrecoverable Advance. The Officer s Certificate shall detail the reasons for the Subservicer s
determination.

Section 5.04.    Master Servicer Functions  . Subservicer hereby acknowledges and agrees
that, unless otherwise specifically provided under this Agreement, Subservicer shall, on behalf of
Servicer, act, carry out and perform its duties as Subservicer hereunder as if Subservicer were
also Master Servicer under the Pooling and Servicing Agreements and the Private Investor
Agreements. Subservicer
acknowledges and agrees that the Subservicing Fee takes into account Subservicer s agreement
pursuant to the preceding sentence.

ARTICLE VI  
  SUBSERVICER PAYMENT PROVISIONS  

Section 6.01.    Effectiveness of Payment Provisions  . The Subservicing Fees payable by
Servicer to Subservicer during the year 2002 shall be retroactively effective as of January 1,
2002.

44 

Section 6.02.    Compensation for Loan Servicing; Allocation of Special Fees and Charges  .
(a)  General Fee . In consideration for the servicing activities performed by Subservicer
pursuant to this Agreement, Servicer shall pay to Subservicer a sum equal to $   * * *    for each
Mortgage Loan if any of the following conditions apply with respect to such Mortgage Loan:

(i) Borrower under such Mortgage Loan has an Outstanding Balance greater than $50 on
the last day of such month;   or  

(ii) Borrower under such Mortgage Loan has received a Mortgage Loan Advance from the
Subservicer during such month;   or   

(iii) Borrower under such Mortgage Loan has made a principal or interest payment to the
Subservicer during such month.

If none of the conditions specified in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) above shall apply with respect to
a Mortgage Loan during any given month, Servicer shall pay to Subservicer a sum equal to $   * * *   
with respect to each such Mortgage Loan. The fees payable under this   Section 6.02(a)   are
referred to herein as the   Subservicing Fees  .

(b)  Renegotiation of Fees . The Subservicing Fees shall be renegotiated by Servicer
and Subservicer on a yearly basis in accordance with this   Section 6.02(b)  . No later than
October 1 of each year, the parties shall commence good faith negotiations with respect to
establishing the Subservicing Fees for the following year. If the parties fail to reach an
agreement with respect to the Subservicing Fees by November 1, the Subservicing Fees for the
following year shall be determined by an Independent Appraisal. The new Subservicing Fees, whether
determined by mutual agreement or by an Independent Appraisal, shall not take effect until January
1 of the following year.

(c)  Specific Fees and Charges Payable to Subservicer . In addition to the fees
described in   Section 6.02(a)  , Subservicer shall be entitled to receive any reimbursable fee
approved by the Servicer.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, AS AMENDED. 

45 

(d)  Servicing Fees for Returned Checks . Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer on a
monthly basis for (i) Subservicer s cost of funds associated with Subservicer advances of daily
Returned Checks and (ii) the unpaid principal amount of returned checks over 90 days outstanding.
Subservicer shall provide Servicer on a monthly basis with a detailed list, exclusive of
Subservicer process errors, of Subservicer s daily cost of funds for unreimbursed FRB return items
and provide ageing and research notes on outstanding items in the form of   Exhibit O  .
Subservicer shall also provide to Servicer, on or before the fifth business day of each month, a
detailed list, in the form of   Exhibit O   and exclusive of Subservicer process errors, of
aged unreimbursed FBR return Check items that are over 90 days outstanding. Servicer shall
reimburse Subservicer for such amounts. Servicer shall have three business days to review the cost
of funds and detailed 90-day outstanding list and either approve it or advise Subservicer of
errors. Servicer and Subservicer shall cooperate and exert reasonable efforts to correct any
errors. Servicer shall remit funds to Subservicer by wire transfer within twenty-four hours of
either the approval of the reconciliation or the correction of any errors detected by the
appropriate party. In any event, the mutually agreed upon amount must be remitted to the
Subservicer no later than the 15 th  day of the month (or first Business Day immediately
thereafter). Subservicer must provide any and all reasonably requested documentation to Servicer
prior to reimbursement of 90-day outstanding check returns. For purposes of this Section 6.02(d),
Subservicer shall calculate its  cost of funds  utilizing the Federal Funds Rate.

(e)  Reconciliation of Other Amounts . If at any time Servicer discovers that it has
remitted to Subservicer an amount in excess of the amounts required to be remitted by it to
Subservicer pursuant to this   Section 6.02  , then Servicer shall promptly notify Subservicer.
The parties shall, within ten business days from the date Servicer so notifies Subservicer,
cooperate and exert reasonable efforts to reconcile such error. Subservicer shall remit to
Servicer, by wire transfer, such reconciled amount within twenty-four hours of such resolution.

Section 6.03.    Reimbursement to Subservicer for Payments Made to Third Parties  .
Subservicer shall be responsible for, and agrees to pay, all third parties  fees and expenses on
Servicer s behalf in connection with the performance by Subservicer of its obligations under this
Agreement (other than for transaction fees paid to VISA   , for which payments Servicer
shall reimburse Subservicer).

Section 6.04.    Payment Procedures  . (a) Each Business Day, Subservicer, using activity
posted on the EDP system and evidenced in report MLR411 and report MLR665, shall total all cash
amounts posted the prior Business Day by Subservicer to Borrowers, including (but not limited to)
amounts with respect to: (i) all Check transactions posted on behalf of Borrowers, (ii) all sums
posted that day in settlement of Charges on behalf of Borrowers, (iii) all wire transfers of funds
posted that day by Subservicer on behalf of Borrowers, (iv) all sums posted that day with respect
to Borrower s request for certified and cashier checks, and (v) all disbursement checks posted on
behalf of Borrowers. Such total amount shall be due and payable by Servicer to Subservicer.

46 

(b) Each Business Day, Subservicer, using activity posted on the EDP system and evidenced in
report MLR411 and report MLR665, shall total all cash amounts posted the prior Business Day by
Subservicer from Borrowers, including (but not limited to) amounts with respect to: (i) all amounts
posted on the prior Business Day by Borrowers in satisfaction of principal outstanding under
Mortgage Loans, (ii) all amounts posted on the prior Business Day by Borrowers in satisfaction of
interest or fees under Mortgage Loans, (iii) all judgments, awards, and other sums posted on the
prior Business Day in whole or partial satisfaction of amounts due and payable to Servicer under
Mortgage Loan Documents, Mortgages, or any related documents, (iv) Returned Checks transactions
posted, (v) all amounts posted on the prior Business Day by Subservicer in respect of returned
Checks previously reimbursed to Subservicer by Servicer, chargebacks of Charges, or other
adjustments to amounts posted by Servicer, and (vi) 100% of all interchange fees in respect of
Charges. Such total amount shall be due and payable by Subservicer to Servicer.

(c) Each Business Day, Subservicer shall prepare and deliver to Servicer settlement reports in
the form set forth on Exhibit J, titled  MLCC Equity Access Daily Reconciliation . Such report
shall be derived from report MLR411 and report MLR665 previously delivered to Servicer, and shall
reflect a settlement of amounts posted by Subservicer on the immediately preceding Business Day.
Subservicer shall deliver such settlement reports to Servicer no later than    * * *   to which each
such settlement report relates. Each day VISA    settlement occurs, Subservicer shall, in
accordance with VISA    rules and regulations for timely settlement with VISA   ,
transfer an amount equal to all Charges to be settled such day, with appropriate adjustments for
chargebacks, returns, representments and reversals. Calculation of daily net settlement shall be
based on activity posted to Borrower accounts by Subservicer and evidenced by EDP reports in the
form of the  MLCC Equity Access Daily Reconciliation  settlement report. The  MLCC Equity Access
Daily Reconciliation  shall summarize Subservicer posted daily cash activity as the basis of daily
net settlement. If the total amount of payments made by (and due to) Subservicer pursuant to
  Section 6.04(a)   and evidenced by the  MLCC Equity Access Daily Reconciliation  exceeds the
total amount due and payable to Servicer pursuant to   Section 6.04(b)  , then, on the Business
Day Servicer receives such settlement report, Servicer shall pay to Subservicer via wire transfer,
an amount equal to the difference between the two sums  plus  one day s interest on such
difference, calculated at the Federal Funds Rate. If the total amount due and payable to Servicer
pursuant to   Section 6.04(b)   and evidenced by the  MLCC Equity Access Daily Reconciliation 
exceeds the total amount of payments made by (and due to) Subservicer pursuant to   Section
6.04(a)  , then, on the Business Day Servicer receives such settlement report, Subservicer shall
pay to Servicer via wire transfer, an amount equal to the difference between the two sums
 plus     * * *   .

(d) Additional supporting schedules shall include detail for activity not in the settlement in
the form of (i) net interest / late fee activity, (ii) closing cost activity, and (iii) detailed
non-cash activity. A reconciliation of the daily cash and supporting schedules shall balance to
the daily net principal and non-principal activity on MLR411. Subservicer shall forward supporting
reports and documentation to Servicer as set forth in the Operations Guide.

47 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

48 

ARTICLE VII  
  SOLICITATION  

Section 7.01.    Solicitation  . Subservicer and its Affiliates are prohibited from
soliciting any Mortgagor, or causing any Mortgagor to be solicited for prepayment of any Mortgage
Loan. Without Servicer s prior written consent, which may be withheld by Servicer in its sole
discretion, neither Subservicer nor any Affiliate shall solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any
Mortgagor to be solicited, for subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate
financing arranged through the Equity Access    Program), or any product or service
whatsoever, including, without limitation, any investment or financial services or products,
insurance products or services and brokerage account services. Neither Servicer nor any of its
Affiliates shall be prohibited from soliciting any Mortgagor or causing any Mortgagor to be
solicited for any product or service now offered (or hereafter offered) by Servicer or any
Affiliate of Servicer. Subservicer shall not prepare or disseminate, for compensation or
otherwise, any mailing lists relating to the Mortgagors, the Mortgage Loans, or otherwise,
including any lists of Mortgagors, without Servicer s prior written consent, which may be withheld
by Servicer in its sole discretion. The parties hereto nevertheless agree that (i) either
Subservicer, Servicer or their respective Affiliates may from time to time undertake promotions
that are directed to either their own general customer base or to the general public at large and
that do not target Mortgagors directly, including, without limitation, newspaper, radio and
television advertisements and mass mailing or telephone solicitations and that (ii) offers by
Subservicer, Servicer or their respective Affiliates to refinance Mortgage Loans in response to, or
as a result of, contact initiated by such the related Mortgagors or their representatives shall not
constitute solicitation.

ARTICLE VIII  
  ASSIGNMENT OF MORTGAGES  

Section 8.01.    Assignments  . There shall be no Assignments to the Subservicer for any
Mortgage Loans at any time under this Agreement.

ARTICLE IX  
  THIRD PARTY CONSENTS  

Section 9.01.    Third Party Consents  . The right and obligation to subservice Mortgage
Loans subject to a Pooling and Servicing Agreement are subject to Servicer s obtaining, at its sole
cost and expense, the related Third Party Consents. Servicer shall use its best efforts to obtain
each Third Party Consent no later than fifteen (15) days prior to each applicable Transfer Date,
unless other dates are agreed to by the parties. Subservicer shall cooperate with Servicer in
obtaining the Third Party
Consents and shall timely respond to all reasonable requests from the applicable third parties
concerning Subservicer and its business operations. Servicer shall notify Subservicer in writing
immediately upon obtaining the Third Party Consents, and Servicer shall provide a copy of the Third
Party Consents to Subservicer. Servicer shall pay any and all costs related to obtaining any Third
Party Consent.

49 

ARTICLE X  
  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS OF SUBSERVICER  

The obligations of Subservicer under this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of the
following conditions:

Section 10.01.    Compliance and Conditions  . All terms, covenants, and conditions of
this Agreement required to be complied with and performed by Servicer shall have been duly complied
with and performed by Servicer in all material respects on or before the date specified.

Section 10.02.    Corporate Resolution  . Subservicer shall have received from Servicer on
or before the first Transfer Date a duly executed certificate of Servicer s Secretary or Assistant
Secretary reciting the corporate approval by Servicer of the subservicing of the Mortgage Loans by
Subservicer and authorizing Servicer s officers to execute such documents as may be necessary to
carry out the transactions contemplated hereby.

Section 10.03.    No Material Adverse Change  . As of each applicable Transfer Date, there
shall not have been any material adverse change in the business or financial condition of Servicer
since the date of this Agreement (or since the immediately preceding Transfer Date, in the case of
any Transfer Date after the first Transfer Date), other than those that result from general changes
in economic conditions including but not limited to fluctuations in interest rates, changes to
Applicable Requirements, or changes applicable to the mortgage servicing industry generally.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein,  material adverse change  shall not include: (a) the
merger of Servicer with and into any of Servicer s Affiliates or (b) each applicable sale and
transfer of the servicing rights to Subservicer pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement or
transfer of subservicing rights as contemplated hereunder.

Section 10.04.    Financial Ability to Indemnify  . Subservicer shall have received, on or
before the first Transfer Date, evidence, satisfactory to Subservicer in the exercise of its
reasonable discretion, that Servicer has the financial ability to discharge its indemnity
obligations, and any and all other financial obligations set forth herein.

Section 10.05.    Opinion of Counsel for Servicer  . Subservicer shall have received, on
or before the first Transfer Date, an opinion of the in-house counsel of Servicer (or of a law firm
reasonably acceptable to Subservicer) dated as of the date of this Agreement, in form and substance
satisfactory to Subservicer in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, to the effect that: (a)
Servicer is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its state of
organization; (b) Servicer has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to enter into
the Transaction Agreements and to perform the obligations required of it thereby; (c) the execution
and performance by Servicer of the Transaction Agreements, Servicer s compliance with the terms
thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby do not and will not conflict
with any of the terms of Servicer s certificate of incorporation or bylaws or any similar corporate
documents of Servicer, or, as to the attorney s knowledge any material contract or agreement, order
or decree to which Servicer is subject or by which it is bound; (d) the Transaction Agreements have
been duly executed by Servicer and each is the valid and

50 

legally binding obligation of Servicer
enforceable against Servicer in accordance with their respective terms, subject to bankruptcy,
insolvency and similar laws affecting generally the enforcement of creditors  rights and the
discretion of a court to grant specific performance of contracts; and (e) to the knowledge of such
counsel, there is no litigation proceeding or governmental investigation existing, pending or
threatened, or any order, injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Servicer that is
reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect upon the performance by Servicer of its
obligations under this Agreement.

Section 10.06.    Correctness of Representations and Warranties  . The representations and
warranties made by Servicer in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of
each Transfer Date with respect to the subservicing rights transferred on such date, except where
another date is specified therein.

Section 10.07.    Litigation or Administrative Action  . As of each Transfer Date, there
shall not have been commenced or, to the knowledge of either party hereto, threatened, any action,
suit or proceeding that enjoins, or is likely to materially and adversely affect, the consummation
of the transactions contemplated hereby.

Section 10.08.    Third Party Consents  . As of each applicable Transfer Date, with
respect to the subservicing rights to be transferred on such Transfer Date, Subservicer shall have
received the applicable Third Party Consents required by   Article IX  .

Section 10.09.    Effective Agreements  . As of each applicable Transfer Date, the
applicable Private Investor Agreements and applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreements shall be in
full force and effect. As of each
applicable Transfer Date, the Transaction Agreements shall be in full force and effect and
Servicer shall have complied in all material respects with the covenants, conditions, and
agreements applicable to it under the Transaction Agreements.

ARTICLE XI  
  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS OF SERVICER  

The obligations of Servicer under this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of the
following conditions:

Section 11.01.    Compliance with Conditions  . All terms, conditions and covenants of
this Agreement required to be complied with and performed by Subservicer shall have been duly
complied with and performed by Subservicer in all material respects on or before the date
specified.

Section 11.02.    Corporate Resolution  . Servicer shall have received from Subservicer on
or before the first Transfer Date a duly executed certificate of Subservicer s Secretary or
Assistant Secretary reciting the corporate approval by Subservicer of the subservicing of the
Mortgage Loans and authorizing Subservicer s officers to execute such documents as may be necessary
to carry out the transactions contemplated hereby.

51 

Section 11.03.    Correctness of Representations and Warranties  . The representations and
warranties made by Subservicer in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as
of each applicable Transfer Date with respect to the subservicing rights transferred on such date,
except where another date is specified therein.

Section 11.04.    Third Party Consents  . As of each applicable Transfer Date, with
respect to subservicing rights to be transferred on such Transfer Date, Servicer shall have
received the Third Party Consents required by   Article IX  .

Section 11.05.    Opinion of Counsel for Subservicer  . Servicer shall have received, on
or before the first Transfer Date, an opinion of the in-house counsel of Subservicer (or of a law
firm reasonably acceptable to Servicer) dated as of the date of this Agreement, in form and
substance satisfactory to Servicer in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, to the effect
that: (a) Subservicer is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its
state of organization; (b) Subservicer has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to
enter into the Transaction Agreements and to perform the obligations required of it thereby; (c)
the execution and performance by Subservicer of the
Transaction Agreements, Subservicer s compliance with the terms thereof and the consummation
of the transactions contemplated thereby do not and will not conflict with any of the terms of
Subservicer s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or any similar corporate documents of
Subservicer, or, as to the attorney s knowledge, any material contract or agreement, order or
decree to which Subservicer is subject or by which it is bound; (d) the Transaction Agreements have
been duly executed by Subservicer and each is the valid and legally binding obligation of
Subservicer enforceable against Subservicer in accordance with their respective terms, subject to
bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting generally the enforcement of creditors  rights
and the discretion of a court to grant specific performance of contracts; and (e) to the knowledge
of such counsel, there is no litigation proceeding or governmental investigation existing, pending
or threatened, or any order, injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Subservicer
that is reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect upon the performance by Subservicer
of its obligations hereunder.

Section 11.06.    No Material Adverse Change  . As of each applicable Transfer Date, there
shall not have been any material adverse change in the business or financial condition of
Subservicer since the date of this Agreement (or since the immediately preceding Transfer Date, in
the case of any Transfer Date after the first Transfer Date), other than those that result from
general changes in economic conditions including but not limited to fluctuations in interest rates,
changes to Applicable Requirements, or changes applicable to the mortgage servicing industry
generally. Notwithstanding anything contained herein,  material adverse change  shall not include
the merger of Subservicer with and into any of Subservicer s Affiliates.

Section 11.07.    Financial Ability to Indemnify  . Servicer shall have received, on or
before the first Transfer Date, evidence, satisfactory to Servicer in the exercise of its
reasonable discretion, that Subservicer has the financial ability to discharge its indemnity
obligations, and any and all other financial obligations set forth herein.

52 

Section 11.08.    Effective Agreements  . As of each applicable Transfer Date, the
applicable Private Investor Agreements and applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreements shall be in
full force and effect. As of each applicable Transfer Date, the Transaction Agreements shall be in
full force and effect and Subservicer shall have complied in all material respects with the
covenants, conditions, and agreements applicable to it under the Transaction Agreements.

ARTICLE XII  
  ANNUAL CERTIFICATIONS  

Section 12.01.    Annual Statement as to Compliance  . The Subservicer will deliver to the Servicer on or before March 1 of each year, beginning
with March 1, 2003, a certificate signed by a senior vice president or more senior officer stating
that (i) a review of the activities of the Subservicer during the preceding calendar year and of
performance under this Agreement has been made under such officer s supervision, and (ii) to the
best of such officer s knowledge, based on such review, the Subservicer has fulfilled all of its
obligations under this Agreement throughout such year in all material respects, or, if there has
been a default in the fulfillment of any such obligation, specifying each such default known to
such officer and the nature and status thereof.

Section 12.02.    Annual Independent Certified Public Accountants  Servicing Reports  . On
or before March 1 of each year, beginning with March 1, 2003, the Subservicer at its expense shall
cause a nationally recognized firm of independent certified public accountants that is a member of
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants to furnish a report to the Servicer to the
effect that (i) all Mortgage Loans subserviced by the Subservicer were included in the total
population of mortgage loans subject to selection for testing in such firm s examination of certain
documents and records, that such examination was conducted substantially in compliance with the
Uniform Single Attestation Program for Mortgage Bankers and that such examination disclosed no
items of material noncompliance with the provisions of the Uniform Single Attestation Program for
Mortgage Bankers, except for such items of noncompliance as shall be set forth in such report and
(ii) such accounting firm (or another nationally recognized firm) has reviewed the operations and
control procedures of the Subservicer relative to the Subservicer s EDP and has determined that
such system has been suitably designed to subservice the Mortgage Loans pursuant to this Agreement.

(a) Prior to execution of this Agreement, the Subservicer at its expense shall have caused,
and annually thereafter within 90 days after the close of the Subservicer s fiscal year, beginning
with the close of the 2000 fiscal year, the Subservicer at its expense shall cause, a nationally
recognized firm of independent public accountants that is a member of the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants to furnish to the Servicer audited financial statements of the
Subservicer for the then most recently closed fiscal year, together with an opinion thereon of such
public accountants that either is unqualified or contains only such qualifications as are
acceptable to the Servicer.

(b) On or before March 1 of each year, beginning March 1, 2003, the Subservicer, at its
expense, shall cause the Subservicer s EDP licensor to furnish its Statement of Auditing

53 

Standards
(  SAS  ) 70 Report (Report on the Processing of Transactions by Service Organizations) to
the Servicer.

ARTICLE XIII  
  INDEMNIFICATION  

Section 13.01.    Indemnification of Subservicer  . Servicer shall indemnify and hold Subservicer, its officers, directors, employees and
agents (the   Subservicer Indemnified Parties  ) harmless from, and will reimburse the
Subservicer Indemnified Parties for, any and all Losses incurred by any of the Subservicer
Indemnified Parties to the extent that such Losses result from, are caused by, or arise out of any
one or more of the following:

(a) Any material misrepresentations made by Servicer in this Agreement or in any schedule,
exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto;

(b) Any material breach of any representations and warranties of Servicer or the
nonfulfillment of any term, covenant, condition, or obligation of Servicer set forth in this
Agreement or in any schedule, statement, exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto, or any
default or failure to perform by Servicer hereunder;

(c) Any liabilities or obligations, contingent or otherwise, of Servicer of any nature
whatsoever relating to Servicer s obligations under this Agreement (other than those specifically
assumed by Subservicer under this Agreement), to the extent that any related Loss to Subservicer is
not increased by negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of Subservicer;

(d) The fact that any Advance is not fully collectible after reasonable good faith efforts on
the part of Subservicer to collect the Advance.

(e) Any failure of the Servicer to perform default servicing activities in accordance with the
related Pooling and Servicing Agreement for any Complex Defaulted Mortgage Loan, as described in
  Section 2.07  .

The indemnity provided in this   Section 13.01   shall remain in full force and effect
regardless of any investigation made by Subservicer or its representatives.

Section 13.02.    Repurchase of Mortgage Loans  . In the event Servicer repurchases a
Mortgage Loan, Subservicer will follow such directions and provide such reports as may be required
by the Servicer. Upon repurchase, MLCC will be the owner of the Mortgage Loan which shall be
subserviced by the Subservicer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

Section 13.03.    Indemnification of Servicer  . Subservicer shall indemnify and hold
Servicer, its officers, directors, employees and agents (the   Servicer Indemnified
Parties  ) harmless from, and will reimburse the Servicer Indemnified Parties for, any and all
Losses incurred by any of the Servicer Indemnified Parties to the extent that such Losses result
from, are caused by or arise out of any one or more of the following:

54 

(a) Any material misrepresentations made by Subservicer in this Agreement, or in any schedule,
exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto;

(b) Any material breach of any of the representations and warranties of Subservicer or the
nonfulfillment of any term, covenant, condition or obligation of Subservicer set forth in this
Agreement or in any schedule, statement, exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant hereto, or any
default or failure to perform by Subservicer hereunder;

(c) Any failure of Subservicer to comply with the terms of any Private Investor Agreement, or
any Pooling and Servicing Agreement or any other Applicable Requirements in connection with
subservicing the Mortgage Loans;

(d) Any liabilities or obligations, contingent or otherwise, of Subservicer of any nature
whatsoever relating to Subservicer s obligations under this Agreement, to the extent that any
related Loss to Servicer is not increased by negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the
part of Servicer;

(e) Any non-compliance with the terms of any powers of attorney or the use thereof that
results in a Loss to Servicer; or

(f) Any failure by Subservicer to deliver a Distribution Certificate in accordance with
  Section 5.01  .

The indemnity provided in this   Section 13.03   shall remain in full force and effect
regardless of any investigation made by Servicer or its representatives.

Section 13.04.    Notice and Settlement of Claims  . (a) In the event that either party
to this Agreement becomes aware of any material fact giving rise to any obligation of the other
party under this   Article XIII  , including, but not limited to, any claim or any litigation
brought by a third party which may give rise to any such obligation, such party shall promptly, but
in no event later than seven (7) Business Days, provide the other party with a notice describing
the same. Failure to provide a notice within such seven (7) Business Day period shall not relieve
such other party of its obligations under this   Article XIII  , unless such failure materially
prejudices the rights or increases the liability of such other party, and then, such other party s
liability shall be reduced only by the amount that it actually has been damaged by such failure.

(b) The indemnifying party (the   Indemnifying Party  ) may, at its own cost and
expense, assume defense of any claim, suit, action or proceeding, provided that the counsel is
satisfactory to the indemnified party (the   Indemnified Party  ) in the exercise of its
reasonable discretion. The party not controlling the defense or prosecution of any such claim,
suit, action or proceeding may participate at its own cost and expense.

(c) Neither the Indemnifying Party nor the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to settle,
compromise, decline to appeal, or otherwise dispose of any claim, suit, action or

55 

proceeding
without the consent of the other party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed).

(d) Following the discharge of the Indemnifying Party s obligations under this   Article
XIII  , the Indemnified Party shall assign to the Indemnifying Party any and all related claims
against third parties. If the Indemnifying Party fails to discharge its obligations under this
  Article XIII  , the Indemnified Party shall be entitled (but not obligated) to pursue (as the
assignee of the Indemnifying Party) any and all claims against third parties which the Indemnifying
Party otherwise would have the right to pursue, including, but not limited to, claims against loan
correspondents. Within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the Indemnified Party shall refund to the
Indemnifying Party the amounts of all recoveries the Indemnified Party received from third parties
with respect to any claim for which the Indemnified Party was reimbursed for its Losses.

(e) Following the receipt of written notice from the Indemnified Party of a demand for
indemnification, the Indemnifying Party shall seek to cure the problem giving rise to the demand,
if possible, without any actual or contingent liability of the Indemnified Party, and pay the
amount for which it is liable, or otherwise take the actions which it is required to take within
thirty (30) days or such lesser time as may be required by a Trustee, Insurer or third-party
claimant.

ARTICLE XIV  
  DEFAULT AND TERMINATION  

Section 14.01.    Termination by Servicer; Events of Default  . In case one or more of the
following events (each, an   Event of Default  ) shall occur and be continuing:

(a) any failure by the Subservicer to timely remit to the Servicer or any Trustee any payment
required to be made under the terms of this Agreement; or

(b) any material breach by the Subservicer of any other term, agreement, covenant,
representation or warranty in this Agreement that has not been cured after written notice and a
thirty (30) day curative period, or such lesser time as is provided to the Servicer under the
applicable Pooling and Servicing Agreement; or

(c) there shall have occurred under any Transaction Agreement a default by the Subservicer; or

(d) following entry against the Subservicer of a decree or order of a court or agency or
supervisory authority having jurisdiction for the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver,
liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) for the
Subservicer in any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, readjustment of debt, marshaling
of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings, or for the winding-up or liquidation of
Subservicer s affairs, if such decree or order has remained in force undischarged or unstayed for a
period of sixty (60) days, or

56 

(e) upon consent by the Subservicer to the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver,
liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) in, or commencement of
a voluntary case under, any federal or state bankruptcy insolvency, readjustment of debt,
marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings of or relating to the Subservicer or of
or relating to all or substantially all of the Subservicer s property; or

(f) upon the Subservicer s (A) admitting in writing its inability to pay its debts generally
as they become due, (B) filing a petition to take advantage of any applicable insolvency or
reorganization statute, (C) making an assignment for the benefit of its creditors or (D)
voluntarily suspending payment of its obligations; or

(g) the Subservicer ceases to be eligible to sell mortgage loans to or service mortgage loans
for FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA or ceases to be a HUD-approved mortgagee; or

(h) any failure by Subservicer to deliver a Distribution Certificate in accordance with
  Section 5.01  ; or

(i) the Subservicer fails to meet a  Service Standard  set forth in Section I of the
Operations Guide and the Subservicer fails to remedy such deficiency within the ninety (90) day
time period set forth in   Section 14.02(b)  ; or

(j) any downgrade, withdrawal, or qualification by a Rating Agency of its rating of any
outstanding class of Certificates due to an act or omission of the Subservicer; or

(k) a Trust Fund ceases to qualify as a REMIC due to an act or omission of the Subservicer;

then and in each and every such case, the Servicer may, by notice in writing to the Subservicer,
terminate this Agreement and exercise any other rights and remedies that the Servicer may have at
law or in equity, including, without limitation, the right to damages, injunctive relief and
specific performance. In addition to the foregoing, in the event that (A) a Subservicer Competitor
Change of Control shall have occurred, then at any time after Servicer shall have received notice
of such Subservicer Competitor Change of Control, Servicer may, by giving written notice thereof to
Subservicer, terminate this Agreement as of a future date specified in such notice of termination;
or (B) a Subservicer Change of Control (other than a Subservicer Competitor Change of Control)
shall have occurred, then at any time within 30 days after the two year anniversary of such
Subservicer Change of Control, Servicer may, by giving written notice thereof to Subservicer,
terminate this Agreement as of a future date specified in such notice of termination. On or after
the receipt by the Subservicer of written notice of termination of this Agreement, all authority
and power of the Subservicer under this Agreement, whether with respect to the Mortgage Loans or
otherwise, shall
pass to and be vested in the successor appointed pursuant to   Section 15.01  . Upon written
request from the Servicer, the Subservicer shall prepare, execute and deliver, any and all
documents and other instruments, deliver to the successor all mortgage files, and do or accomplish
all other acts or things necessary or appropriate to effect the purposes of such notice of
termination, including the transfer and endorsement or assignment of the Mortgage Loans and related
documents, or otherwise,

57 

at the Subservicer s sole expense. The Subservicer agrees to cooperate
with the Servicer and such successor in effecting the termination of the Subservicer s
responsibilities and rights hereunder as provided above, including, without limitation, the
transfer to such successor for administration by it of all cash amounts which shall at the time be
credited by the Subservicer to any Mortgage Loan or thereafter received with respect to the
Mortgage Loans.

Section 14.02.    Failure of Subservicer to Maintain Service Standards; Termination  . (a)
If, as evidenced by the monthly reports that Subservicer is required to furnish to Servicer
pursuant to Section II of the Operations Guide, any service standard set forth in Section I of the
Operations Guide is not satisfied (a   Service Deficiency  ) during    * * *   , at Servicer s
request Subservicer shall develop a plan describing the countermeasures and targets/goals
Subservicer will use to correct the Service Deficiency, and Subservicer shall present such plan to
Servicer within 15 days after Servicer has notified Subservicer of the Service Deficiency. Within
15 days after receiving the plan from Subservicer, Servicer shall either (x) accept the plan or (y)
instruct Subservicer to modify the plan, and, in the case of clause (y), Subservicer shall make
such modifications. Unless Servicer agrees otherwise, Subservicer shall cure the Service
Deficiency within 60 calendar days (the   Level I Curative Period  ) from the date on which
Servicer has accepted the plan or notified Subservicer of the modifications to be made to the plan.

(b) If Subservicer fails to correct any Service Deficiency by the end of the Level I Curative
Period, then, for a period not to exceed 90 days from the end of any Level I Curative Period,
Subservicer shall pay Servicer liquidated damages of $   * * *   . Subservicer shall pay such
liquidated damages to Servicer by wire transfer of immediately available funds within    * * * . If
a Service Deficiency has not been cured within such 90-day period, Servicer may at its sole option,
within sixty (60) days thereafter, require Subservicer to solicit bids for an alternative
subservicer as provided in   Section (d)   below.

(c) If a Service Deficiency has not been cured and Servicer elects not to require Subservicer
to solicit bids for an alternative subservicer as provided for in   Section (d)   below,

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

58 

then within fifteen (15) days of
Servicer s request, Subservicer shall develop and present a
plan to Servicer describing new countermeasures and targets/goals that Subservicer will use to
correct the Service Deficiency. Following receipt of the plan, Subservicer and Servicer shall
follow and be subject to the requirements of   Section 14.02(a)   and   (b)  , including
but not limited to the liquidated damages provisions.

(d) In the event that Servicer shall have the right to require Subservicer to solicit bids for
an alternative subservicer as provided in (b) above, then Subservicer, upon Servicer s written
demand, shall proceed as follows:

(i) Subservicer shall prepare a request for proposal (  RFP  ) for an alternative
subservicer to assume Subservicer s obligations relating to its obligations hereunder.
Subservicer shall submit such RFP to Servicer for review within thirty (30) days of
Servicer s written demand that Subservicer solicit bids for an alternative subservicer.
Subservicer shall incorporate Servicer s reasonably requested revisions to such RFP within
ten (10) days of Subservicer s receipt of Servicer s requested revisions.

(ii) Subservicer shall submit the final RFP to no less than three (3) residential
Mortgage Loan servicers reasonably chosen by Servicer.

(iii) Subservicer shall select the bid requested by Servicer.

(iv) Subservicer shall pay the costs of the entity chosen by Servicer as the
alternative subservicer to assume Subservicer s obligations hereunder. If, however, the bid
selected by Servicer is the highest bid and such bid    * * *   , then Servicer shall be
responsible for the difference between the selected bid and   * * *  .

(e) The remedies set forth in this   Section 14.02   shall be in furtherance of, and not
in limitation of, Servicer s remedies under this Agreement.

Section 14.03.    Waiver of Defaults  . The Servicer, by notice in writing to the
Subservicer, may waive any default by the Subservicer in the performance of its obligations
hereunder and its consequences. Upon any such waiver of a past default, such default shall cease
to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been remedied for
every purpose of this Agreement. No such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or
impair any right consequent thereon except to the extent expressly so waived.

Section 14.04.    Term of Agreement; Termination Without Cause  . (a) This Agreement
shall automatically expire and terminate upon the earlier of (i) December 31, 2004 (the
  Initial Termination Date  ) or (ii) the date upon which the Origination Agreement is
terminated in accordance with the terms thereof. In the event this Agreement has not earlier
terminated, the respective obligations and responsibilities of the Subservicer shall terminate
without cause and without payment by either party of any penalty or termination fee (i) upon the
later of the final payment or other liquidation (or any advance with respect thereto) of the last
Mortgage Loan or the disposition of all REO Properties and the

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH

59 

THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

60 

remittance of all funds due hereunder or (ii) by mutual consent of the Subservicer and the
Servicer in writing.

(b) Servicer may elect to terminate this Agreement without cause prior to the end of the
Initial Termination Date of this Agreement upon one hundred eighty (180) days prior written notice
to Subservicer. Within five (5) Business Days of the effective date of any such termination, the
Servicer shall pay to the Subservicer an early termination fee that shall be equal to the
Subservicing Fees earned by Subservicer during the last three full months under this Agreement.

(c) Servicer may elect to terminate this Agreement without cause and without payment to the
Subservicer of any penalty or termination fee at any time after the Initial Termination Date of
this Agreement upon one hundred eighty (180) days prior written notice to Subservicer.

(d) The Subservicer acknowledges that in the event MLCC is terminated as the Servicer under
any Pooling and Servicing Agreement, the Trustee or successor Servicer thereunder has the option to
terminate this Agreement and the rights of the Subservicer to subservice the Mortgage Loans,
without cause and without penalty or payment of a termination fee to the Subservicer. In event of
such termination of the Subservicer, (i) if the Subservicer is terminated prior to the end of the
Initial Termination Date of this Agreement, within five (5) Business Days after the effective date
of termination, the Servicer shall pay a termination fee to the Subservicer that shall be equal to
   * * *    or (ii) if the Subservicer is terminated after the end of the Initial Termination Date of
this Agreement, the Subservicer shall not be entitled to any penalty or termination fee from the
Servicer.

Section 14.05.    Effect of Termination of Agreement  . (a) In the event this Agreement
is terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof, this   Section 14.05  ,   Article XIII  ,
  Sections 7.01  ,   14.02  ,   17.02  ,   17.03  ,   17.05   and   17.17  
shall remain in effect after such termination, and all provisions relating to the allocation of
responsibility for costs incurred by Servicer and/or Subservicer shall remain in effect with
respect to acts occurring before such termination.

(b) If Servicer, Trustee or successor Servicer under a Pooling and Servicing Agreement,
terminates this Agreement, and Servicer terminates any or all of the other Transaction Agreements
(to the extent Servicer is permitted to do so), the remedies for liquidated damages set forth in
  Section 14.02   shall not apply as to any Mortgage Loan that Subservicer continues to
subservice.

ARTICLE XV 

SUCCESSOR TO THE SUBSERVICER  

Section 15.01.    Successor to the Subservicer  . Upon termination of Subservicer s
responsibilities and duties under this Agreement, the Servicer, applicable Trustee or successor
Servicer, or successor Subservicer, shall service or

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

61 

subservice the applicable Mortgage Loans under such terms and conditions as such parties may
agree.

(a) In the event that the Subservicer s duties, responsibilities and liabilities under this
Agreement should be terminated, the Subservicer shall discharge such duties and responsibilities
during the period from the date it acquires Knowledge of such termination until the effective date
thereof with the same degree of diligence and prudence which it is obligated to exercise under this
Agreement, and shall take no action whatsoever that might impair or prejudice the rights or
financial condition of its successor, a Trustee or Certificateholder under any Pooling and
Servicing Agreement or a Private Investor. The resignation or removal of Subservicer shall not
relieve the Subservicer of any representations, warranties, covenants or agreements made in
connection herewith or affect the remedies available to the Servicer hereunder, it being understood
and agreed that such provisions shall be applicable to the Subservicer notwithstanding any such
resignation or termination of the Subservicer, or the termination of this Agreement.

(b) Any termination or resignation of the Subservicer or termination of this Agreement shall
not affect any claims that the Servicer may have against the Subservicer due to any failure of the
Subservicer to comply with the terms of this Agreement prior to any such termination or
resignation.

(c) The Subservicer, in a timely and reasonable manner, but in any event no later than two (2)
Business Days after the effective date of any termination or permitted resignation of the
Subservicer or termination of this Agreement, shall deliver to the Servicer, applicable Trustee or
successor Servicer, or successor Subservicer (i) any funds held in connection with the Mortgage
Loans and (ii) the mortgage files and related documents and statements and computer files held by
it hereunder, and the Subservicer shall account for all funds. The Subservicer shall execute and
deliver such instruments and do such other things all as may reasonably be required to more fully
and definitely vest and confirm in the Servicer, applicable Trustee or successor Servicer, or
successor Subservicer all such rights, powers, duties, responsibilities, obligations and
liabilities of the Subservicer. The Servicer or new Subservicer shall make arrangements as it may
deem appropriate to reimburse the Subservicer for amounts the Subservicer actually expended
pursuant to this Agreement that the Servicer or successor Subservicer is entitled to retain
hereunder and that would otherwise have been reimbursable to the Subservicer pursuant to this
Agreement but for the termination of the Subservicer.

ARTICLE XVI 

ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING  

Section 16.01.    Compliance  . (a) Subservicer shall at all times undertake and perform
the requirements set forth in Servicer s anti-money laundering policies and procedures (as of the
date hereof, policies and procedures nos. 2000-25, 2000-13 and 98-048) as the same may be amended
from time to time (the   BSA Policies and Procedures  ). The BSA Policies and Procedures are
attached hereto as   Exhibit G  . Servicer represents and warrants that as of the date hereof, Servicer
complies with its anti-money laundering policies and procedures (as of the date

62 

hereof, policies
and procedures nos. 2000-25, 2000-13 and 98-048). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
representation contained in the immediately preceding sentence is inaccurate as of the date made as
to any specific part of the BSA Policies and Procedures (the   Non-Compliant Procedure  ),
Subservicer shall not be obligated to comply with such Non-Compliant Procedure to the extent that
(i) Servicer does not comply with such Non-Compliant Procedure as of the date hereof and (ii)
Subservicer is not in compliance with such Non-Compliant Procedure as of the date such inaccuracy
is discovered;  provided , that upon discovery of the inaccuracy of such representation,
Subservicer shall promptly notify Servicer in writing of such inaccuracy and shall indicate in such
notice the Non-Compliant Procedure. Within five (5) Business Days after receipt of such notice,
Servicer shall notify Subservicer of whether Servicer desires Subservicer to follow such
Non-Complying Procedure. If Servicer notifies Subservicer that it desires Subservicer to follow
such Non-Compliant Procedure, Subservicer shall have the right to propose an adjustment to the
Subservicing Fee in accordance with the procedures set forth in   Section 17.04(d)  . For the
avoidance of doubt, nothing contained in this   Section 16.01   shall relieve Subservicer s
obligation to subservice the Mortgage Loans in accordance with applicable law. Subservicer shall
comply with the BSA Policies and Procedures and shall take reasonable steps to detect payments that
are inconsistent with such policies and procedures. In the event Subservicer retains the services
of a third party vendor to process the receipt of funds from Mortgagors (hereafter, a   Lock-Box
Vendor  ), Subservicer shall first obtain Servicer s consent to the selection of such Lock-Box
Vendor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Further, Subservicer shall provide the
BSA Policies and Procedures to any such Lock-Box Vendor and ensure that such Lock-Box Vendor
complies with the same.

(b) Subservicer shall be responsible for assuring compliance by Servicer with Servicer s
obligations under the BSA by identifying and reporting possible money laundering and other illegal
activity to the extent set forth in the BSA Policies and Procedures.

(c) Prior to the first Transfer Date, Subservicer shall have: (i) appointed a suitable
officer of Subservicer to be responsible for compliance with the BSA Policies and Procedures; (ii)
caused such officer and any other appropriate persons to have participated in one or more training
sessions on anti-money laundering and bank secrecy act compliance which sessions will be provided
by Servicer or a third party vendor at Servicer s expense; and (iii) implemented policies,
procedures and internal controls to undertake the BSA Policies and Procedures and shall have
provided Servicer with photocopies of internal memoranda and other documents of Subservicer setting
forth such policies, procedures and internal controls.

(d) Failure of Subservicer to comply with the terms of this   Article XVI   in all
material respects, including without limitation, the failure of Subservicer to take any remedial
action called for by Servicer as described in subsection (f) below, shall constitute a Service
Deficiency for purposes of   Section 14.02  .

(e) Subservicer shall indemnify Servicer for any financial losses resulting from Subservicer s
failure to comply with the BSA Policies and Procedures.

63 

(f) Servicer, upon reasonable notice, may audit and test Subservicer s compliance with the
provisions of the BSA Policies and Procedures. Any such audit or test may be conducted by
Servicer s internal auditors or other employees or by an outside auditing firm. If Servicer
detects weaknesses in or exceptions to Subservicer s compliance with the BSA Policies and
Procedures, Servicer shall notify Subservicer of its findings, and Subservicer shall immediately
undertake the remedial action suggested by Servicer and shall report to Servicer on the action
taken.

ARTICLE XVII 

MISCELLANEOUS  

Section 17.01.    Supplementary Information  . From time to time before and after each
applicable Transfer Date, Servicer shall furnish to Subservicer such information supplementary to
the information contained in the documents and schedules delivered pursuant hereto which is
reasonably available to Servicer as Subservicer may reasonably request in writing and/or which may
be necessary to enable Subservicer to file any reports or respond to Mortgagor or Trustee inquiries
in connection with the Mortgage Loans or subservicing rights so long as furnishing such information
does not violate the Applicable Requirements.

Section 17.02.    Access to Information; Confidentiality  . (a) Upon reasonable prior
notice, (i) Servicer shall afford reasonable cooperation to Subservicer and its counsel,
accountants and other representatives (collectively,   Subservicer s Representatives  ) in
providing reasonable access during normal business hours through each Transfer Date to examine
Servicer s files, books and records with respect to the related Mortgage Loans and subservicing
rights and (ii) Subservicer shall afford reasonable cooperation to Servicer and its counsel,
accountants and other representatives (collectively,  Servicer s Representatives ) in providing
reasonable access during normal business hours after each Transfer Date to examine Subservicer s
files, books and records with respect to the related Mortgage Loans and subservicing rights.
Servicer shall be entitled to take reasonable and appropriate actions to assure that Subservicer
maintains the confidentiality of the names and addresses of the Mortgagors under the Mortgage Loans
and all non-public information obtained in such investigation that could reasonably be construed to
be of a confidential or proprietary nature. Subservicer and Subservicer s Representatives shall
treat as confidential all information obtained in such investigation and not otherwise in the
public domain. Each party shall, upon reasonable notice to the other party, provide the other
party with access to its premises during normal working hours and access to reasonable cooperation
with its officers and employees. The salaries, travel, subsistence and other related expenses for
the visiting party shall be borne by such party. The party being visited shall, at its expense,
make available all customary, reasonable office space, facilities, and equipment for the visiting
party.

(b) Subservicer shall, and shall cause Subservicer s Representatives and Subservicer s
Affiliates to, hold in confidence and not disclose to any third party without Servicer s prior
written consent, all information relating to Servicer received by Subservicer, Subservicer s
Representatives and/or Subservicer s Affiliates in connection with the transactions contemplated

64 

herein, other than information (i) received by Subservicer, Subservicer s Representatives or
Subservicer s Affiliates on a non-confidential basis from a third party having a right to make such
disclosure; (ii) that is or becomes generally available to the public (except as a result of a
disclosure in violation of this Agreement); or (iii) required to be disclosed by law or regulatory
or judicial process.

(c) Servicer shall, and shall cause Servicer s Representatives and Servicer s Affiliates to,
hold in confidence and not disclose to any third party without Subservicer s prior written consent,
all information relating to Subservicer received by Servicer and/or Servicer s Representatives in
connection with the transactions contemplated herein, other than information (i) received by
Servicer or Servicer s Representatives on a non-confidential basis from a third party having a
right to make such disclosure; (ii) that is or becomes generally available to the public (except as
a result of a disclosure in violation of this Agreement); or (iii) is required to be disclosed by
law or regulatory or judicial process.

(d) Subservicer acknowledges that Servicer is licensed as a mortgage
lender/originator/servicer in numerous jurisdictions and that, pursuant to such licenses and
similar licenses, Servicer is requested from time to time to make available to various governmental
officials and examiners various loan level information, documents, and similar items including, but
not limited to, certain  mortgage loan servicing  information. If Servicer is required to produce
any such mortgage loan servicing information, Subservicer shall make all such information available
to Servicer in a timely manner at Servicer s cost and expense, provided that Subservicer s
dissemination of such information does not violate the Applicable Requirements.

(e) This   Section 17.02   shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

Section 17.03.    No Broker s Fees  . Each party hereto represents and warrants to the
other that it has made no agreement to pay any agent, finder, or broker or any other
representative, any fee or commission in the nature of a finder s or broker s fee arising out of or
in connection with the subject matter of this Agreement. The parties hereto covenant with each
other and agree to indemnify and hold each other harmless from and against any such obligation or
liability and any Losses incurred by the other in investigating or defending any claim based upon
the other party s actions under this Section. This   Section 17.03   shall survive any
termination of this Agreement.

Section 17.04.    Further Assurances  . (a) Servicer and Subservicer shall cooperate in
good faith to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

(b) In order for the parties hereto to perform their respective obligations hereunder, each
party shall furnish to the other party such reports, information or documentation supplementary to
the information contained in the documents and schedules delivered pursuant hereto and deliver such
reports, information or documentation as may reasonably be requested by such party and as are
reasonably normal and customary in the mortgage loan servicing industry.

65 

(c) Servicer and Subservicer shall each execute and deliver to each other all such other
instruments or documentation as either may reasonably request in order to effect the transfer,
assignment and delivery to Subservicer of the subservicing rights which are the subject of this
Agreement.

(d) If, after the date hereof, a material change in any Applicable Requirement shall have had
a material, negative economic impact on either Party, then such Party may propose an adjustment to
the Subservicing Fee paid to Subservicer pursuant to   Article VI  . The non-proposing Party
agrees to consider such proposal in good faith,  provided  that the proposing Party provides,
upon the reasonable request of the non-proposing Party, documentation evidencing such negative
economic impact.

Section 17.05.    Survival  . Except as otherwise provided herein, all representations,
warranties, covenants, indemnities and other agreements of the parties to this Agreement set forth
herein or in any exhibit, schedule or other document or certificate delivered or to be delivered
pursuant hereto shall survive each applicable Transfer Date regarding the Mortgage Loans the
subservicing of which is transferred on those dates.

Section 17.06.    Governmental Authorities; Laws and Severability  . The terms and
provisions of this Agreement are expressly made subject to applicable federal and state statutes,
laws, and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended from time to time. Any rule,
regulation or administrative policy of any government agency having jurisdiction that relates to
the transfer of the subservicing rights to Subservicer and that is in effect on each applicable
Transfer Date shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, and shall supersede the terms of this
Agreement, unless such incorporation shall materially impair the contemplated benefits to be
received by the parties pursuant to this Agreement, in which event the parties shall renegotiate
the terms and conditions hereof to reflect a fair allocation of the economic benefits contemplated
hereby. In the event any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be in violation of any of the above, such provision shall be of no force or effect,
and this Agreement shall continue as though such superseded provision were not contained in this
Agreement.

Section 17.07.    Form of Payment to Be Made  . Unless otherwise provided herein or agreed to in writing by the parties, all payments
contemplated herein shall be made by wiring immediately available funds to the account designated
by Servicer or Subservicer, as applicable.

Section 17.08.    Assignability  . Neither Servicer nor Subservicer shall assign this
Agreement, or delegate any duty hereunder, without the prior written consent of the other party and
without having complied with all applicable provisions of the Pooling and Servicing Agreements,
including but not limited to having obtained any necessary Third Party Consents. Notwithstanding
the above prohibition, this Agreement may be assigned by either party to such party s Affiliate
upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to the other party hereto, provided that (i) such
party s Affiliate is an Affiliate as of the date hereof and has the ability to perform the
obligations of the Subservicer hereunder and (ii) such party has complied with all applicable

66 

provisions of the Pooling and Servicing Agreements, including but not limited to having obtained
any necessary Third Party Consents.

Section 17.09.    Certain Costs  . Unless otherwise set forth in this Agreement, each
party shall bear their respective costs in fulfilling their responsibilities herein.

Section 17.10.    Notices  . All notices, requests, demands and other communications that
are required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed
given if delivered personally, transmitted by facsimile (and telephonically confirmed), mailed by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent by commercial overnight courier to
the other party at the following address:

If to Subservicer, to:

With a copy to:

If to Servicer, to:

With a copy to:

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 

67 

or to such other address as Subservicer or Servicer shall have specified in writing to the other.

Section 17.11.    Entire Agreement; Construction  . (a) This Agreement constitutes the
entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. Except as set
forth in paragraph (b) below, no amendments, modifications, or supplements of this Agreement shall
be binding unless executed in writing by the parties hereto. Reference to sections, subsections,
schedules, or exhibits in this Agreement are to sections and subsections of, and schedules and
exhibits to, this Agreement. The schedules and exhibits are part of this Agreement. Accounting
terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The words  herein ,  hereby ,  hereunder  and other words of
similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision. This
Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation, (i) consents, waivers
and modifications that may hereafter be executed, (ii) documents received by any party at the
closing, and (iii) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter
furnished, may be reproduced by any photographic, photostatic, microfilm, micro-card, miniature
photographic or other similar
process. The parties agree that any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the
original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding, whether or not the original is in
existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by a party in the regular course of
business, and that any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction shall
likewise be admissible in evidence.

(b) Subservicer agrees that   Exhibit C   hereto may be amended by Servicer during the
month of January 2003 and during every second January thereafter by sending written notice to
Subservicer of such amendments;  provided ,  however , that each such amendment may
change no more than ten Persons on such Exhibit;  provided   further , that (i) Persons
added to   Exhibit C   shall be Persons which are Financial Services Firms and (ii)   Exhibit
C   shall not at any time contain more than twenty Persons.

Section 17.12.    Binding Effect  . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be
binding upon the parties hereto and their respective permitted successors and permitted assigns.

Section 17.13.    Headings; Plurals; Genders  . Section and Article headings are for
reference purposes only and shall not be deemed to have any substantive effect. In construing the
words of this Agreement, plural constructions will include the singular, and singular constructions
will include the plural. No significance will be attached to whether a pronoun is masculine,
feminine, or neuter.

Section 17.14.    Applicable Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the state of New York.

68 

Section 17.15.    Counterparts  . This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same Agreement. The
parties hereto agree that the exchange by telefax of executed signature pages to this Agreement
shall be binding upon the parties, with original, signed Agreements to follow by overnight mail.

Section 17.16.    Waivers  . No term or provision of this Agreement may be waived or
modified unless such waiver or modification is in writing and signed by the party against whom such
waiver or modification is sought to be enforced. The waiver by either party hereto of a breach of
any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other or
subsequent breach.

Section 17.17.    Publicity  . Except as required by applicable law, neither party hereto shall issue a press release or
similar announcement or communication relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated
herein using the other party s name without such other party s prior written consent.

Section 17.18.    No Third Party Beneficiaries  . Except as expressly provided herein,
nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer any right, remedy, obligation or liability upon any
Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.

Section 17.19.    Attorney Fees, Costs, Etc  . If any action at law or in equity,
including an action for declaratory relief, is brought to enforce or interpret the provisions of
this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees and
court costs from the other party. Such fees may be set by the court in the trial of such action or
may be enforced in a separate action brought for that purpose. Such fees shall be in addition to
any other relief that may be awarded.

Section 17.20.    Merger or Consolidation of Servicer and Subservicer  . (a) Servicer and
Subservicer shall each keep in full effect, their respective existences, rights and franchises as
corporations in the states of their incorporation except as permitted herein, and will obtain and
preserve their respective qualifications to do business as foreign entities in each jurisdiction in
which such qualification is or shall be necessary to: (i) protect the validity and enforceability
of this Agreement, or of any of the Mortgage Loans; and/or (ii) to perform their respective duties
under this Agreement.

(b) Subject to Servicer s right to terminate this Agreement upon the occurrence of a
Subservicer Change of Control or a Subservicer Competitor Change of Control, any entity into which
Servicer or Subservicer may be merged or consolidated, or any entity resulting from any merger,
conversion or consolidation to which Servicer or Subservicer shall be a party, or any entity
succeeding to the business of Servicer or Subservicer, shall be the successor of Servicer or
Subservicer hereunder, without the execution of filing of any paper or any further act on the part
of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding;  provided ,
 however , the successor or surviving entity shall be an institution whose business is the
origination or servicing of mortgage loans, unless otherwise consented to by Subservicer or
Servicer, as

69 

applicable, and shall be qualified to service mortgage loans on behalf of FNMA and to
subservice the Mortgage Loans under each of the Pooling and Servicing Agreements.

Section 17.21.    Termination Assistance  . (a) Upon expiration or termination of all or
part of the MLCC Services for any reason, Subservicer shall for a period of one (1) year (the
  Termination Assistance Period  ), upon Servicer s request and at Servicer s expense,
continue to provide the MLCC Services that were
provided prior thereto (  Termination Assistance Services  ). In providing Termination
Assistance Services, Subservicer shall provide such reasonable cooperation and technical assistance
to Servicer, or to a third-party service provider designated by Servicer, as required to facilitate
the transfer of the affected MLCC Services to Servicer or such third-party service provider. The
rights of Servicer under this Section shall be without prejudice to the Parties  rights to pursue
legal remedies for breach of this Agreement, either for breaches prior to termination or during the
period this Agreement is continued in force post-termination. Termination Assistance Services
shall be provided for the same fees as prior to termination, and Subservicer shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to perform the MLCC Services at the same service levels as prior to termination.
MLCC hereby agrees to continue to provide the services or meet its obligations contemplated to be
provided by it under this Agreement during the Termination Assistance Period in order to assist
Subservicer in complying with this   Section 17.21(a)  .

(b) If and to the extent requested by Servicer, whether prior to, upon, or following any
termination of this Agreement, Subservicer shall reasonably assist Servicer in developing a plan
which shall specify the tasks to be performed by the Parties in connection with the Termination
Assistance Services and the schedule for the performance of such tasks. The transition plan shall
include descriptions of the MLCC Services, service levels, fees, documentation and access
requirements that will promote an orderly transition of the MLCC Services.

(c) For a period of six (6) months following the Termination Assistance Period, Subservicer
shall: (i) answer all reasonable and pertinent verbal or written questions from Servicer regarding
the MLCC Services on an  as needed  basis; and (ii) deliver to Servicer any remaining
Servicer-owned reports and documentation still in Subservicer s possession.

Signature page follows.  

70 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF ,  MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION  and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION
have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as
of the date first above written.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name: 
Title: 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Joseph Sutter

Name: Joseph Sutter 
Title: Senior Vice President 

71 

EQUITY ACCESS      AND OMEGA SM  LOAN SUBSERVICING AGREEMENT 
AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (FIDELITY CONVERSION) 

By and Between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

AND 

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

March 14, 2006 

EQUITY ACCESS      AND OMEGA SM  LOAN SUBSERVICING AGREEMENT AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (FIDELITY CONVERSION) 

This Amendment Agreement (Fidelity Conversion) dated as of March 14, 2006 (this   Amendment
Agreement  ), by and between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with
offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and PHH
MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at
3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  PHH  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH are parties to an Equity Access    and Omega SM  Loan
Subservicing Agreement dated as of June 6, 2002 (as amended and supplemented as of the date hereof,
the   Equity Access Agreement   and

WHEREAS, MLCC and PHH desire to reflect properly their agreement with respect to certain
matters relating to the extension of the Equity Access Agreement and the conversion of certain
information technology systems utilized in the performance of PHH s obligations under the Equity
Access Agreement, as set forth below;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and agreements
set forth in this Amendment Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1: Amendments to the Equity Access Agreement . The Equity Access Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:

Section 1.01  Section 1.01 . The following definitions are added to Section 1.01 in
alphabetical order:

Active Loan    means any HELOC Loan that had an Outstanding Principal Balance
greater than zero and/or had accrued and unpaid interest due during the month. A
HELOC Loan shall be considered  active  for the month in which such HELOC Loan is
paid in full.

Active Loan Servicing Fee   means, as applicable, (a) from the date hereof
until the Fidelity Conversion Date $   * * *    or (b) if the Initial Termination Date
shall be determined pursuant to clause (ii) of Section 14.04 hereof, (i) from the
Fidelity Conversion Date until the first anniversary thereof (   Year One   ),
$   * * *   , (ii) during the year following the first anniversary of the Fidelity
Conversion Date (   Year Two   ), $   * * *   , and (iii) during the year following
the second anniversary of the Fidelity Conversion Date (   Year Three   ), $   * *
*   ;  provided ,  however , that (A) in the event that the total number of
Mortgage Loans subserviced during    * * *   , the Active Loan Servicing Fee for    * * *   
shall be $   * * *    and (B) in the event that the total number of Mortgage Loans
subserviced during    * * *   , the Active Loan Servicing Fee for    * * *    shall be $   * *
*   . 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

1 

Fidelity Conversion Date   means the date on which all Mortgage Loans
are subserviced on the Fidelity system, as further described in Section 14.04(a)
below.

Inactive Loan    means any HELOC Loan other than an  active  HELOC Loan.

Inactive Loan Servicing Fee   means, as applicable, (a) from the date hereof
until the Fidelity Conversion Date, $   * * *    or (b) if the Initial Termination Date
shall be determined pursuant to clause (ii) of Section 14.04 hereof, (i) during    * *
*   , $   * * *   , (ii) during    * * *   , $   * * *   , and (iii) during    * * *    $   * * *   ;
 provided ,  however , that (A) in the event that the total number of
Mortgage Loans subserviced during    * * *   , the Inactive Loan Servicing Fee for    * *
*    shall be $   * * *    and (B) in the event that the total number of Mortgage Loans
subserviced during    * * *   , the Inactive Loan Servicing Fee for    * * *    shall be $   *
* *   . 

Year One   means the twelve month period beginning on the Fidelity Conversion
Date and ending on the first anniversary of the Fidelity Conversion Date. 

Year Two   means the twelve month period beginning on the first anniversary
of the Fidelity Conversion Date and ending on the second anniversary of the Fidelity
Conversion Date 

Year Three   means the twelve month period beginning on the second anniversary
of the Fidelity Conversion Date and ending on the third anniversary of the Fidelity
Conversion Date 

(b)  Section 1.01 . The definition of  EDP  contained in Section 1.01 is hereby amended
in its entirety to read as follows:

EDP   means (a) on and after the Fidelity Conversion Date, the electronic data
processing system commonly referred to as the  Fidelity  system and (b) prior to the
Fidelity Conversion Date, the MLCC computer tracking system used by MLCC as of
January 1, 2001 to service Equity Loans, which computer tracking system is licensed
to Subservicer pursuant to the Licensing Agreement, or (c) such other computer
tracking system that Subservicer may utilize from time to time to subservice the
Equity Loans,  provided , that such other computer tracking system enables
Subservicer to perform its obligations under this Agreement, including its obligation
to produce the reports and provide the information required to be provided to the
Servicer hereunder. 

(c) 
       
      Section 2.01(h) . Section 2.01(h) is hereby amended in its entirety by
replacing the text thereof with the following text:  With the exception of (i) Ancillary
Fees, (ii) reasonable and customary wire transfer fees and (iii) any other reasonable and
customary charges, including but not limited to charges expressly permitted by the Mortgage
Note, Mortgage and Applicable Requirements ( Allowed Fees ), the Subservicer covenants and
agrees 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

2 

that it will not, without the prior written consent of the Servicer, charge or collect
from any Mortgagor, or trustee under a deed of trust, any fees, other than Allowed Fees, of
any kind including, but not limited to, charges for amounts expended by the Subservicer,
regardless of the characterization of the fee or charge.  

d) 
       
      Section 2.02 . The following sentence is added to Section 2.02 as the second
sentence thereof:  At no time shall Subservicer have any legal or beneficial interest in
any Mortgage Loan or Mortgage Loan Document, but only a custodial interest as provided in
this Section 2.02 and Servicer shall at all times retain all of the legal and beneficial
interests in each Mortgage Loan and Mortgage Loan Document.  

e) 
       
      Section 2.09 . Section 2.09 is amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

Section 2.09.    Use of EDP; Conversion to Fidelity  . (a)  Nabanco/First Data
EDP . Other than as set forth in Section 2.09(c) and other than as provided in the Asset
Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2000, between Servicer and Subservicer, throughout the
term of this Agreement, Subservicer shall pay    * * *    Dollars per    * * *    in payment for its use
of, and access to, the EDP system commonly referred to as  Nabanco . Such $   * * *    shall include
all cost and expenses associated with the maintenance, use and service of such system and any
third-party user or license fees. Subservicer shall continue to pay Servicer said sum for Nabanco
until the Fidelity Conversion Date, at which time all such payment shall cease. No further
payments shall be required so long as on or before    * * *   , Subservicer mails credit cards to the
Borrowers existing as of the Fidelity Conversion Date. In the event Subservicer is unable to mail
new cards by    * * *   , Subservicer shall remit    * * *    Dollars per    * * *    in payment for its
continued use of the Nabanco EDP system, until the earlier of (a) the date the credit cards are
mailed to the Borrowers existing as of the Fidelity Conversion Date or (b)    * * *   . In the event
Subservicer is unable to mail new credit cards to the Borrowers existing as of the Fidelity
Conversion Date on or before    * * *   , Subservicer shall pay    * * *    Dollars per    * * *    for access
to Nabanco for    * * *   , for the term of the Equity Access    and Omega SM  Loan
Subservicing Agreement dated as of June 6, 2002.

(b)  Change of EDP . Other than as set forth in Section 2.09(c), approval of Servicer,
which may be withheld at Servicer s sole discretion, must be obtained by Subservicer prior to the
development of a new EDP and before the transfer of any Equity Loan to the new EDP. If Servicer
approves such development or transfer, the development and transfer shall be on such terms as
mutually agreed upon by the parties.

(c)  Transfer to Fidelity .

(i) Servicer and Subservicer hereby agree that Subservicer may transfer Equity Loans to the
new EDP commonly referred to as  Fidelity  upon the terms set forth in this Section 2.09(c).
Subservicer shall pay for all costs and expenses incurred by it, Servicer or any other Person in
connection with or arising from the conversion of the EDP from  Nabanco  to  Fidelity 
 provided  that Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer for any reasonable and documented costs
and expenses incurred by Subservicer in connection with or arising from the conversion,

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

3 

de-conversion and/or related consulting services of the EDP from  Nabanco  to  Fidelity  that
arise solely as a result of requirements relating to the conversion and operation of Fidelity that
are imposed by Servicer but which are in addition to the requirements specified in the Statement of
Work attached hereto as Exhibit P (such as additional functionality or enhancements to the standard
product offering or customized reporting). Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer for such charges
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the documented expense from Subservicer.

(ii) Subservicer shall be responsible for and shall pay the costs and expenses of
Subservicer s information technology resources required for project management of the Fidelity EDP
system and basic programming requirements for Subservicer s internal information technology and
other systems. Servicer shall be responsible for and shall pay the costs and expenses of
dedicating sufficient Servicer personnel necessary to effectuate the conversion to Fidelity with
respect to such EDP system s interaction with Servicer s information technology systems.

(iii) In connection with the conversion to the Fidelity EDP system, Servicer agrees to pay the
costs and expenses of (a), issuing new credit cards to Borrowers existing as of the Fidelity
Conversion Date, (b) carrying out other transitional activities relating thereto (including credit
card start-up costs and the creation of a Fidelity test region for Servicer) and (c) actual
reasonable legal expenses, which collectively are anticipated to total    * * *   ) (the  Servicer Card
Conversion Amount ). In addition, Servicer agrees to pay the costs and expenses of preparing and
mailing all customer notification related to the First Data to Fidelity conversion and issuing new
checks to Borrowers existing as of the Fidelity Conversion Date.

Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer for any such charges within thirty (30) days of receipt
of the documented expense from Subservicer.

(iv) In the event that during Year One, Year Two or Year Three, Subservicer utilizes the
credit card functionality within the Fidelity system in connection with the performance by it or
any of its affiliates of any servicing or subservicing activities for a Person other than Servicer,
Subservicer shall reimburse Servicer    * * *   , excluding any amounts paid by Servicer to reissue the
credit cards.

(v) In addition to entering into a contract with Fidelity for the conversion to the Fidelity
EDP system to support credit card functionality for the Equity Access program, Subservicer will
also enter into an agreement with First Data Resources Inc. ( FDR ) for certain processing
services. Subservicer shall use best efforts to negotiate a termination date with FDR that will
match the termination date of this Agreement (i.e., three years). However, in the event the
minimum negotiated term of the FDR agreement is four (4) years, Servicer agrees to reimburse
Subservicer for the costs and expenses incurred in the fourth year by Subservicer under said FDR
contract. However, if Subservicer is utilizing credit card functionality for HELOC loans for a
third-party private label client in Year 4, Servicer shall be relieved of the obligation to
reimburse said costs and expenses incurred in the fourth year by Subservicer under the FDR
contract.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

4 

Section 2.27 . Section 2.27 is hereby amended in its entirety by replacing the
text thereof with the following text:  In performing its services and obligations under this
Agreement, Subservicer shall have the right to select and engage the services of (at its own cost
and expense) a lockbox vendor, a Visa    bank sponsor/credit card issuer and a card
transaction provider. 

Section 2A.1 . Section 2A.1 is hereby amended by (i) deleting the words  by overnight
delivery service  in paragraph (a) and inserting in lieu thereof the words  by first class mail 
(ii) adding the following text at the end of paragraph (a):  The amount of Checks made available
to Borrowers may be reduced by Subservicer from the amount of Checks made available to Borrowers on
or prior to the date of this Agreement, but in no event shall the amount of Checks made available
to Borrowers under this Agreement be less than the amount of checks made available by Subservicer
to borrowers pursuant to its contractual arrangements with other mortgage loan subservicing
clients, and Subservicer may reduce the number of colors used in printing the checks to two,
provided print colors are pre-approved by MLCC. (iii) deleting the text  , pursuant to Servicer s
direction  in the first sentence of paragraph (b); and (iv) adding the following text at the end of
paragraph (b):  In complying with its obligations under this Section 2A.1(b), Subservicer may
clear Checks utilizing its existing banking relationships and in a manner substantially similar
(and no less favorable to Servicer) to the manner in which it clears checks pursuant to its
contractual arrangements with other mortgage loan subservicing clients.

Section 2A.2(h) . The following text is added to Section 2A.2 as new paragraph (h): The
parties agree that the  Sponsor Bank Interchange Fee  is the gross interchange fee paid to the
Sponsor Bank. Of the Sponsor Bank Interchange Fee, Servicer shall be entitled to receive a
 Private Label Interchange Fee , calculated as follows. Subject to the Sponsor Bank Minimum Fee
requirement set out below, Servicer shall be entitled to receive the  Private Label Interchange
Fee  equal to    * * *   . Subservicer agrees to promptly remit to Servicer the Private Label
Interchange Fee remitted to it by the Sponsor Bank

For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms will have the meaning set out below.

Sponsor Bank  shall mean UMB Bank, N.A., or such other Sponsor Bank as may be designated by the
parties in the future.

Sponsor Bank Minimum Fee  means the minimum fee required by the Sponsor Bank each month. In the
event the Sponsor Bank Interchange Fee does not meet or exceed the Sponsor Bank Minimum Fee, then
Servicer shall pay to Subservicer the difference between the amount of the  Sponsor Bank
Interchange Fee  collected and the Sponsor Bank Minimum Fee, but not more than $   * * *    per month
unless    * * *   .

Section 2A.2(i) . The following text is added to Section 2A.2 as new paragraph (i):
 Subject to Section 2A.2(j), Servicer agrees that it shall reimburse Subservicer for all reasonable
and documented monthly actual or minimum expenses charged by First Data Resource or UMB Bank to
Subservicer and paid by Subservicer with respect to the provision of services by First Data
Resource or UMB Bank to Subservicer required for the performance of Subservicer s obligations under
this Section 2A.2. Prior to any reimbursement obligation of Servicer under

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

5 

this Section 2A.2(i), Subservicer shall submit to Servicer all documentation necessary to
establish such expenses and the payment thereof. 

Section 2A.2(j) . The following text is added to Section 2A.2 as new paragraph (j):
 Subservicer agrees that Servicer shall be obligated to reimburse Subservicer for the expenses
described in Section 2A.2(i) above only to the extent of Servicer s proportional usage of the
systems made available by First Data Resources, Inc. based upon    * * *   . Further, Subservicer
agrees that it shall provide to Servicer in its monthly Subservicing Invoice each month a report
detailing    * * *   . Servicer shall reimburse Subservicer for such expenses within fifteen (15) days
of receipt of said invoice. In the event that such reports are not so provided to Servicer,
Servicer shall have no obligation to reimburse Subservicer for any of the amounts described in
Section 2A.2(i) above until such report is delivered to Servicer. 

Section 2A.2(k) . The following text is added to Section 2A.2 as new paragraph (k):  The
Servicer and the Subservicer agree to consult with each other from time to time with respect to the
development of marketing strategies relating to the reissuance of credit cards and any new credit
card access features, insofar as such strategies or features are not proprietary to third-party
private label clients. Neither party shall have any obligation to incur any costs or expenses
arising from its obligation to consult pursuant to this Section 2A.2(k). 

Section 6.02 . Section 6.02 is hereby amended by (i) replacing the text  a sum equal to $   *
* *     appearing in paragraph (a) with the words  the applicable Active Loan Servicing Fee  and (ii)
replacing the text  a sum equal to $   * * *     appearing in paragraph (a) with the words  the
applicable Inactive Loan Servicing Fee. 

Section 14.04(a) . The first sentence of Section 14.04(a) is hereby amended in its entirety
by replacing such sentence with the following:  Subservicer shall use commercially reasonable
efforts to convert the Nabanco system to the Fidelity system on or before    * * *    (the  Fidelity
Conversion Date ), although Subservicer s commitment with respect to the conversion is dependent
upon the performance of third party vendors over whom Subservicer does not have direct control.
Therefore, the parties agree that the timing of the conversion and the success of the conversion
cannot be determined with precision at this time. This Agreement shall automatically expire and
terminate upon the earliest to occur of (i) the Fidelity Conversion Date, although the parties
agree to consult with each other regarding the feasibility of this date and to grant such
extension(s) as the parties may deem prudent and advisable under the circumstances, (ii) in the
event the Fidelity Conversion shall have occurred prior to the Fidelity Conversion Date, or any
extension thereof as mutually agreed, this Agreement shall terminate on the third anniversary of
the date on which the Fidelity Conversion shall have occurred (such conversion date as evidenced by
a notice from Servicer to Subservicer confirming that the Fidelity Conversion shall have occurred
and the date thereof) (the applicable termination date as between (i) and (ii), the   Initial
Termination Date  ) or (iii) the date upon which the Origination Agreement is terminated in
accordance with the terms thereof. 

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

6 

Section 2. Amendment and Restatement of Equity Access Agreement . MLCC and PHH agree
to amend and restate the Equity Access Agreement on or around the date on which the Fidelity
Conversion occurs in order to reflect in one agreement all amendments made to the Equity Access
Agreement (including the amendments contained in this Amendment Agreement) as of the date of such
amendment and restatement.

Section 3. Governing Law . This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

Section 4. Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment Agreement are
included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment Agreement.

Section 5. Counterparts . This Amendment Agreement may be executed (including by facsimile
transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original but all
of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

Section 6. Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Equity Access Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

Section 7. Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Equity Access Agreement.

7 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as
of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name:   
     Laurence P. Washington  

Title:   
     CEO  

PHH MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Greg Gentek

Name:   
     Greg Gentek  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President  

</EX-10.70>

<EX-10.71>
 14
 y26027exv10w71.htm
 EX-10.71: SERVICING RIGHTS PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

EX-10.71 

Exhibit 10.71 

EXECUTION COPY 

SERVICING RIGHTS PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

BY AND BETWEEN

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION

as

SELLER

and

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION

as

PURCHASER

DATED AS OF

January 28, 2000

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

Table of Contents

SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS 

Exhibit A

Buydown Mortgages 

Composite Exhibit B 

Information Sharing Notice 

Exhibit C

Mortgage Loan Schedule 

Exhibit D

Operations Guide 

Exhibit E

Execution Date Pricing Matrix 

Exhibit F

Transfer Instructions 

Exhibit G-1

Form of Limited Power of Attorney 

Exhibit G-2

Form of Limited Power of Attorney 

Schedule 4.26

Outsource Vendors 

Schedule 5.09(ee)

List of Soldiers and Sailors Relief Act Loans 

Schedule 5.12

Seller s Litigation 

Schedule 6.06

Purchaser s Litigation 

iv 

This Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement (the  Agreement ), dated as of the
28 th  day of January, 2000, is made by and between Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida
32246 ( Seller ), and Cendant Mortgage Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located
at 3000 Leadenhall Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 ( Purchaser ).

WITNESSETH :

WHEREAS , Seller owns, and from time to time will own, the right to service certain residential
mortgage loans that are or shall be identified; and

WHEREAS , the residential mortgage loans shall have characteristics substantially similar to
the mortgage loans described in the Offering Memorandum (each, a  Mortgage Loan  and, collectively,
the  Mortgage Loans , as more fully defined herein), which Mortgage Loans are serviced for the
Investors referred to herein; and

WHEREAS , Seller desires to sell, transfer, and assign to Purchaser, and Purchaser desires to
acquire and assume from Seller, from time to time during the term of this Agreement, the Servicing
Rights referred to herein, and Purchaser desires to become the Servicer under the Investor
Agreements; and

WHEREAS , notwithstanding the sale of Servicing Rights hereunder, Seller wishes to retain the
goodwill of the Mortgagors and the relationships developed with such Mortgagors;

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions contained
herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

ARTICLE I.  
  DEFINITIONS  

Section 1.01.   Incorporation of Recitals; Definitions  .

The foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated herein by reference. As used in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below.

Additional Collateral   means (i) with respect to any Mortgage 100 sm  Loan,
the marketable securities subject to a security interest pursuant to the related Mortgage
100 sm  Pledge Agreement, or (ii) with respect to any Parent Power  Mortgage Loan, the
related Parent Power  Agreement.

Additional Collateral Agreement   means a Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement,
Parent Power  Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account and Parent Power  Guaranty
Agreement for Real Estate.

Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan   means each Mortgage Loan that is either a Mortgage
100 sm  Loan or Parent Power  Mortgage Loan as to which the Additional Collateral is still
required to be provided.

Adjustment Date   means three (3) Business Days after each applicable Transfer Date.

Advances   means, with respect to the Servicing Rights, the outstanding moneys that have
been advanced by Seller from its funds in connection with its servicing of the Mortgage Loans
(including, but not limited to, principal, interest, taxes, ground rents, assessments, insurance
premiums, Soldiers and Sailors Civil Relief Act advances, foreclosure and bankruptcy fees and
expenses, and other expenses) which have been made in accordance with Applicable Requirements; and
for which Seller has a right of reimbursement from Mortgagors, Insurers, Investors, or otherwise.

Affiliate   means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or
indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. (Capitalized
terms derived from the word Affiliate (e.g.,  Affiliated ) shall have corresponding meanings.) For
the purposes of this definition,  control,   controlled by,  and  under common control with  means
the direct or indirect possession of ordinary voting powers to elect a majority of the board of
directors or comparable body of a Person.

Agreement   means this Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement and all exhibits and
schedules hereto, all of which are incorporated herein by this reference, as the same may from time
to time be amended or supplemented by one or more instruments executed by all parties hereto.

Ancillary Fees   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, (i) all late charges, (ii)
all fees payable pursuant to Cendant s  Speed Pay  program, (iii) all returned-item charges (e.g.,
NSF charges) and (iv) modification or conversion fees.

Applicable Requirements   means and includes, as of the time of reference, with respect
to the Mortgage Loans and the Servicing Rights, all of the following: (a) all contractual
obligations of Seller (and any Originator and/or Prior Servicer) or Purchaser contained in this
Agreement, the other Transaction Agreements, the Mortgage Loan Documents, the Investor Agreements,
the applicable Guides or any agreement with any Insurer, for which obligations Seller (and any
Originator and/or Prior Servicer) or Purchaser is responsible or at any time was responsible; (b)
all applicable federal, state, and local legal and regulatory requirements (including laws,
statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances) binding upon Seller (and any Originator and/or Prior
Servicer) or Purchaser; (c) all other applicable requirements and guidelines of each governmental
agency, board, commission, instrumentality, and other governmental body or office having
jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, those of any Investor or any Insurer; (d) all other
applicable judicial and administrative judgments, orders, stipulations, awards, writs, and
injunctions; (e) with respect to Purchaser s obligations, the provisions of the Operations Guide;
and (f) the reasonable and customary mortgage servicing practices of prudent mortgage lending
institutions that service mortgage loans of the same type as the Mortgage Loans in the jurisdiction
in which the related Mortgaged Properties are located.

Appraised Value   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the value of the related
Mortgaged Property based upon the lesser of (i) the appraisal made for the Originator at the time
of origination of the Mortgage Loan, and (ii) if applicable, the sales price of the Mortgaged
Property at such time of origination.

3 

Arbitrator   means, with respect to any arbitrator selected by a party to this
Agreement, an arbitrator that is Independent of such party and has expertise in the valuation of
mortgage loan servicing rights.

ARM Loans   means those Mortgage Loans that are adjustable rate loans.

Assignment   means, with respect to a Mortgage Loan, a written instrument that, when
recorded in the appropriate office of the local jurisdiction in which the related Mortgaged
Property is located, will reflect the transfer of the Mortgage Instrument identified therein from
the transferor to the transferee named therein.

Base MLCC Interim Servicing Fee   means a fee of $   * * *    for each applicable Mortgage
Loan.

BSA   means the regulations set forth in 31 C.F.R. Part 103, promulgated under the Bank
Secrecy Act, 12 U.S.C.   1829b, 12 U.S.C.    1951-1959 and 31 U.S.C.    5311-5330, and similar
requirements under state laws and regulations.

BSA Policies and Procedures   shall have the meaning given in Section 9A.01 hereof.

Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans   means the Mortgage Loans identified as  Bulk Offering
Mortgage Loans  in the Mortgage Loan Schedule.

Bulk Offering Purchase Price   means, with respect to the Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans,
the product of the outstanding principal balance thereof as of the related Bulk Offering Sale Date
and the corresponding percentage set forth on the Execution Date Pricing Matrix.

Bulk Offering Sale Date   means February 29, 2000.

Bulk Offering Servicing Rights   means all Servicing Rights with respect to the Bulk
Offering Mortgage Loans.

Bulk Offering Transfer Date   means, with respect to any Bulk Offering Mortgage Loan,
the related Transfer Date, which shall be April 3, 2000, or such other date as to which the parties
may agree.

Business Day   means any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii) a day on which
banking institutions in the States of New Jersey, Florida or New York are required or authorized by
law or by executive order to be closed or (iii) a day on which Seller or Purchaser is not actually
open for business.

Buydown   means a reduction in a Mortgagor s monthly Mortgage Loan Payment required
under a Mortgage Note or otherwise provided for in a related document. Mortgage Loans with a
Buydown feature are listed on   Exhibit A  .

Cash Outages   shall mean an occurrence, which results from (i) an out-of-balance
condition between the custodial bank cash balance, Seller s book balance, and the Investor s trial

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

4 

balance, or (ii) an out-of-balance condition as a result of a remittance error or a bank
reconciliation adjustment.

Cendant   means Cendant Mortgage Corporation and its successors in interest.

Cendant Mortgage Loan   means a Mortgage Loan originated by Purchaser pursuant to the
Origination Agreement.

Claim Notice   shall have the meaning given in Section 10.02(a) hereof.

Co-op Lease   means, with respect to a Co-op Loan, the proprietary lease with respect to
a dwelling unit occupied by the Mortgagor and relating to the stock allocated to the related
dwelling unit.

Co-op Loan   means a Mortgage Loan secured by the pledge of the evidence of ownership
allocated to a dwelling unit in a residential cooperative housing corporation and a collateral
assignment of the related Co-op Lease.

Correspondent Loan   means any of certain Mortgage Loans purchased on a
servicing-released basis by Seller through its correspondent lending network.

Correspondent Loan Trailing Percentage   means, as of any date of determination after
August 1, 2000, a fraction (expressed as a percentage) whose numerator is the principal balance of
Correspondent Loans included in the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans as to which Servicing Rights
were sold by Seller to Purchaser in the    * * *    period immediately preceding such date of
determination and whose denominator is the principal balance of all such Subsequent Flow Mortgage
Loans.

Custodial Funds   means all funds held in a Custodial Funds Account.

Custodial Funds Account   means an account maintained by Seller for the deposit of
principal and interest payments received in respect of one or more Mortgage Loans.

Cut-Off Date   means, the final date for the posting of transactions (which is one
Business Day before each applicable Transfer Date).

Delivery Date   means five (5) Business Days after each applicable Transfer Date.

EDP   means the electronic data processing system used by Seller and Purchaser, which
are licensees of ALLTEL Information Services, Inc.

Equity Access  Agreement   means the revolving line of credit agreement entered into
between MLCC and the guarantor under any Parent Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate pursuant
to which a line of credit may be drawn upon by MLCC to fund the payment by such guarantor of a loss
specified in such Parent Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate.

Equity
Access  Mortgage   means the mortgage, deed of trust or other security instrument
(including all amendments and supplements thereto) made by the guarantor under any

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

5 

Parent
Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate to secure its obligations thereunder and
under the related Equity Access  Agreement.

Estimated Purchase Price   means, with respect to any Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans and
Initial Flow Mortgage Loans and the related Servicing Rights, an estimate of the related Purchase
Price, based on the outstanding principal balance of the related Mortgage Loans as of the date that
is two (2) Business Days before the related Sale Date.

Excess Yield   means that portion of the interest rate on a Mortgage Loan (other than
the related contractual Servicing Fee payable to Seller) payable to Seller as excess servicing
compensation.

Execution Date Pricing Matrix   means the pricing matrix attached hereto as   Exhibit
E  .

FDIC   means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor thereto.

Federal Funds Rate   means the per annum rate of interest (rounded upward to the nearest
1/100 of 1%) that is the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions
arranged on such day or, if such day is not a Business Day, the previous Business Day, by federal
funds brokers computed and released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or any successor) in
substantially the same manner as such Federal Reserve Bank currently computes and releases the
weighted average it refers to as the  Federal Funds Effective Rate  at the date of this Agreement.

FHLMC   means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or any successor thereto.

Flow Mortgage Loan   means any Initial Flow Mortgage Loan or any Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loan.

Flow Offering Purchase Price   means the applicable Initial Flow Offering Purchase Price
or the applicable Subsequent Flow Offering Purchase Price, as the case may be.

Flow Offering Sale Date   means an Initial Flow Offering Sale Date or Subsequent Flow
Offering Sale Date, as applicable.

Flow Offering Servicing Rights   means the Initial Flow Offering Servicing Rights or
Subsequent Flow Offering Servicing Rights.

Flow Offering Transfer Date   means an Initial Flow Offering Transfer Date or a
Subsequent Flow Offering Transfer Date, as applicable.

FNMA   means the Federal National Mortgage Association or any successor thereto.

FNMA Loan   means any Mortgage Loan serviced by Seller for or on behalf of FNMA, as
Investor.

Foreclosure   means the procedure (including a deed in lieu of foreclosure) pursuant to
which a Mortgaged Property is sold to satisfy a debt upon default of a Mortgagor and includes, to

6 

the extent applicable, in connection with a Co-op Loan, foreclosure on the evidence of ownership
allocated to a dwelling unit in a residential cooperative housing corporation, which foreclosure is
accomplished by a sale in accordance with the provisions of Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial
Code and the security agreement relating to such stock.

GNMA   means the Government National Mortgage Association or any successor thereto.

Guides   means: (a) the FNMA Selling and Servicing Guides with respect to FNMA Loans, as
amended from time to time and (b) any and all rules, regulations, and guidelines of any Investor or
Insurer, and in each case as such Guide may be amended from time to time, including, but not
limited to, all other rules, regulations, guidelines, and memoranda issued by each Investor and
Insurer.

HUD   means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Indemnified Party   shall have the meaning given in Section 10.04(b) hereof.

Indemnifying Party   shall have the meaning given in Section 10.04(b) hereof.

Independent   means, with respect to Seller or Purchaser, that such Person does not have
any material direct financial interest in or any material indirect financial interest in Seller or
Purchaser and has no connection with Seller or Purchaser or any Affiliate thereof as an officer,
employee, promoter, underwriter, trustee, partner, director or Person performing similar functions.

Information Sharing Notice   means a Purchaser Information Sharing Notice or a Seller
Information Sharing Notice, as applicable.

Initial Flow Mortgage Loans   means all Mortgage Loans (other than Bulk Offering
Mortgage Loans and Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans) originated after August 1, 1999 and on or before
March 10, 2000. Such Mortgage Loans shall be identified by Seller after the date hereof in the
Mortgage Loan Schedule and may contain Mortgage Loans originated on or before the date this
Agreement is executed that are not identified on the Mortgage Loan Schedule as Bulk Offering
Mortgage Loans.

Initial Flow Offering Purchase Price   means, with respect to any Initial Flow Mortgage
Loan; the product of the outstanding principal balance thereof as of the related Initial Flow
Offering Sale Date and the corresponding percentage set forth in the Execution Date Pricing Matrix.

Initial Flow Offering Sale Date   means, with respect to any Initial Flow Mortgage Loan,
March 10, 2000.

Initial Flow Offering Servicing Rights   means all Servicing Rights with respect to the
Initial Flow Mortgage Loans.

7 

Initial Flow Offering Transfer Date   means, with respect to any Initial Flow Mortgage
Loan, the related Transfer Date, which shall be April 3, 2000, or such other date as to which the
parties may agree.

Insurer   means any entity that insures or guarantees all or part of the risk of loss on
a Mortgage Loan, including, but not limited to, any Investor and any private mortgage insurance
provider, standard hazard insurance provider, flood insurance provider, earthquake insurance
provider or title insurance provider.

Investor   means, (i) MLCC or (ii) with respect to any Investor Agreement, the party for
which Seller is servicing and administering the related mortgage loans pursuant to such Investor
Agreement.

Investor Agreement   means (i) with respect to Mortgage Loans owned by an Investor other
than MLCC, the agreement or agreements (including all exhibits and schedules thereto and all
amendments and supplements thereof) between Seller and that Investor relating to those Mortgage
Loans and the servicing thereof by Seller and (ii) with respect to Mortgage Loans for which MLCC is
the Investor, the MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement.

IRS   means the Internal Revenue Service.

Knowledge   means that whenever any representation, warranty or other statement
contained in this Agreement is qualified by reference to  Seller s or Purchaser s knowledge  or  to
the best of Seller s or Purchaser s knowledge,  that qualified reference shall be deemed to include
knowledge of facts or conditions of which Seller or Purchaser either is actually aware or should
have been aware under the circumstances in the discharging of Seller s or Purchaser s origination
or servicing duties, as applicable. All matters of public record that, at the time of origination
of any Mortgage Loan originated by Seller, appeared in the related title insurance policy
commitment shall be deemed to be known by Seller, and all matters contained or disclosed in any
Mortgage Loan Documents shall be deemed to be known by Seller or Purchaser.

Litigation   means that the Mortgage Loan or Servicing Rights is/are the subject of or
subject to a lawsuit, other than a Foreclosure or bankruptcy, and such lawsuit has a material
adverse affect on the Mortgage Loan, the Servicing Rights related thereto, or the marketability of
the Mortgage Loan.

Loan Information   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the servicing, loan level,
and other information described on Exhibit 3 to the Operations Guide.

Loan-to-Value Ratio   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, as of any date on which
a determination thereof is made, the ratio on such date of the outstanding principal balance of
such Mortgage Loan to the Appraised Value of the related Mortgaged Property.

Loss   means, in respect of any indemnification arising under this Agreement, any and
all losses, claims, damages, penalties, liabilities, obligations, judgments, settlements, awards,
demands, offsets, defenses, counterclaims, actions or proceedings, reasonable out-of-pocket costs,
expenses and attorneys  fees of the Indemnified Party, including but not limited to, (a) any
reasonable costs, expenses and attorneys  fees incurred by the Indemnified Party in enforcing

8 

such right of indemnification against any Indemnifying Party or with respect to any appeal and (b)
interest at the Federal Funds Rate on any amount for which the Indemnified Party is entitled to be
indemnified from the date the Indemnified Party notifies the Indemnifying Party of the expenditure
of such amounts until such amounts are paid by the Indemnifying Party;  provided ,
 however , that in no event shall a  Loss  include a claim for consequential damages,
indirect damages or lost profits except when the Loss results from fraud or willful misconduct of
the Indemnifying Party.

MBS   means a guaranteed mortgage pass-through certificate issued by FNMA.

MERS   means Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation with
its principal place of business situated at 8201 Greensboro Drive, Suite 350, McLean, Virginia
22102.

MERS FNMA Loan   means, with respect to any date, a FNMA Loan registered with MERS prior
to such date.

MLCC   means Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation and its successors in interest.

MLCC Interim Servicing Compensation   has the meaning set forth in Section 4.03(b).

MLCC Interim Servicing Period   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan as to which
Servicing Rights are being or will be sold and assigned by Seller to Purchaser under this
Agreement, the period, if any, from the related Sale Date to the related Transfer Date.

MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement   means the Portfolio Servicing Agreement dated as of
the date hereof between MLCC and Purchaser with respect to Mortgage Loans as to which MLCC is the
Investor.

Mortgage 100   sm    Loan   means a Mortgage Loan secured by Additional Collateral
in the form of a security interest in the securities and other assets held in a Trading Account and
having a value, as of the date of origination of such Mortgage Loan, at least equal to the related
Original Additional Collateral Requirement.

Mortgage 100   sm    Pledge Agreement   means, with respect to each Mortgage
100 sm  Loan, the Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement for Securities Account
between the related Mortgagor and MLCC pursuant to which such Mortgagor granted a security interest
in the securities and other assets held in a Trading Account.

Mortgage File   means, collectively, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the microfiche
copies, and/or hard copies and/or imaging copies (and/or copies in any other media or format) of
the following documents: Mortgage Note, recorded Mortgage, recorded Assignment (if any) to
Purchaser, all related intervening assignments of mortgage (if any), title policy (required to have
the first page with recording information and property location), ARM Rider (if applicable),
appraisal of related Mortgaged Property (pages 1 and 2), MI certificates (if applicable), HUD1, and
flood certificate, and, if the Mortgage Loan is a Co-op Loan, the UCC-1 and any continuation
statements, the UCC-3 assigning the security interest covered by such UCC-1 to

9 

Seller (if applicable), Co-op Lease, assignment of Co-op Lease to Seller and all intervening
assignments, if any, and the Recognition Agreement.

Mortgage Instrument   means any deed of trust, security deed, mortgage, land contracts,
or any other instrument that constitutes a first lien on real estate (or, in the case of a Co-op
Loan, the applicable security agreement and financing statements) securing payment by a Mortgagor
of a Mortgage Note.

Mortgage Loan   means a conventional, conforming and non-conforming, residential first
lien mortgage loan (other than (i) a mortgage loan originated or acquired by Seller pursuant to its
Equity Access    program and (ii) any of certain mortgage loans designated by Seller) that, in each
case, has been or will be originated or acquired by Seller and sold to Investors by Seller (or
retained by Seller as Investor) and for which Servicing Rights are being sold pursuant to this
Agreement. The term Mortgage Loan shall refer to the Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans, the Flow
Mortgage Loans, the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, the Cendant Mortgage Loans, or any or all of
them, as applicable.

Mortgage Loan Documents   means the Mortgage Instruments, Mortgage Notes and
Assignments, and such other documents required by an Investor or Insurer to originate and service a
Mortgage Loan.

Mortgage Loan Payment   means with respect to a Mortgage Loan, each scheduled
installment for such Mortgage Loan, whether for principal, interest, escrow, or other purpose,
required or permitted to be paid by the Mortgagor in accordance with the terms of the Mortgage Loan
Documents.

Mortgage Loan Product Category   means any product category of Mortgage Loan originated
by or on behalf of MLCC as part of its mortgage loan program, as specified in the Pricing Matrix.

Mortgage Loan Schedule   means, with respect to Servicing Rights sold to Purchaser on
any Sale Date, the list or lists of Mortgage Loans setting forth, as of such Sale Date and the
related Transfer Date, the information set forth in   Exhibit C   hereto.

Mortgage Note   means the mortgage note, deed of trust note, security deed note, or
other form of promissory note executed by a Mortgagor and secured by a Mortgage Instrument
evidencing the indebtedness of the Mortgagor under a Mortgage Loan.

Mortgaged Property   means any one- to four-family residence (at the time of the
origination of the applicable Mortgage Loan) that is encumbered by a Mortgage Instrument, including
all buildings and fixtures thereon and all accessions thereto, and including installations of
mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning systems located in or affixed to
such buildings, and all alterations, additions and replacements thereto. The term  Mortgaged
Property  shall include, to the extent the context shall permit or require, a dwelling unit in a
residential cooperative housing corporation.

Mortgagor   means any and all obligors under a Mortgage Note and/or Mortgage Instrument.

10 

Offering Memorandum   means Seller s Confidential Offering Memorandum dated August 17,
1999, as amended by supplement #1, dated December 2, 1999, with respect to the offering of the
Servicing Rights.

Operations Guide   means the Operations Guide attached hereto as   Exhibit D  , as
the same shall be amended from time to time by Seller.

Opted-out   refers to any Mortgagor who has received an Information Sharing Notice and
has notified Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, that he or she does not want Purchaser to
disseminate the Loan Information to Seller and/or does not want Seller to disseminate the Loan
Information to one or more Affiliates of Seller.

Original Additional Collateral Requirement   means, with respect to any Additional
Collateral Mortgage Loan, generally 30 percent of the original principal balance of such Mortgage
Loan or such other percentage thereof as is specified by MLCC in connection with the origination of
such Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan.

Origination Agreement   means the Mortgage Loan Purchase and Services Agreement dated as
of September 24, 1997 between Seller and PHH Mortgage Services Corporation.

Originator   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the person(s), entity or entities
that (a) took the relevant Mortgagor s loan application; (b) processed the relevant Mortgagor s
loan application; and/or (c) closed and/or funded such Mortgage Loan.

Outsource Vendor   means any vendor or any Affiliate retained by Seller to perform any
aspects of servicing the Mortgage Loans and identified in Schedule 4.26.

Parent
Power  Agreement   means, with respect to each Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan, a
Parent Power  Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities
Account or a Parent Power  Guaranty
Agreement for Real Estate.

Parent Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate   means, with respect to a Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan, an agreement between MLCC and a guarantor on behalf of the Mortgagor under
such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan pursuant to which the guarantor guarantees the payment of certain
losses under such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan, authorizes MLCC to draw on the related Equity Access
Agreement to fund such guaranty and has secured such Equity Access Agreement with a lien on
residential real estate of the guarantor. For purposes of this
definition, the Parent Power  Guaranty Agreement for Real Estate shall not include the rights of
the mortgagee under the Equity Access  Agreement referred to therein and under the Equity Access  Mortgage, which rights have been
retained by MLCC.

Parent Power  Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account   means, with
respect to a Parent Power  Mortgage Loan, an agreement between MLCC and a guarantor on behalf of
the Mortgagor under such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan pursuant to which such guarantor guarantees
the payment of certain losses under such Parent Power  Mortgage Loan and has granted a security
interest to MLCC in certain marketable securities to collateralize such guaranty.

11 

Parent
Power  Mortgage Loan   means a Mortgage Loan that at the time of origination has
a Loan-to-Value Ratio generally in excess of MLCC s maximum acceptable Loan-to-Value Ratio for such
Mortgage Loan and that is guaranteed by a Parent Power Agreement.

Payment Date   means the date on which Purchaser pays the portion of the Purchase Price
described in Section 3.02(b) hereof, which date is five (5) Business Days after the related
Transfer Date, subject in each case to (a) Seller s compliance with, and Purchaser s verification
of such compliance with, Sections 4.14 and 4.16 herein, which sections are required to be complied
with on or before each applicable Payment Date, and (b) Seller s delivery of the reports,
documents, and files that are due on or before each applicable Payment Date in accordance with this
Agreement and the Transfer Instructions.

Payoff Loan   means any Mortgage Loan that is paid in full within ninety (90) days after
each applicable Sale Date.

Permission Agreement   means the Permission Agreement dated as of the date hereof
between Seller and Purchaser.

Person   means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint
venture, trust, or unincorporated organization, or a federal, state, city, municipal, or foreign
government, or an agency or political subdivision thereof.

Pledge
Agreement   means any Mortgage 100 sm  Pledge Agreement or Parent Power  Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account related to an Additional Collateral Mortgage
Loan.

PMI   means private mortgage insurance.

PMI Policy   means a certificate of insurance issued under a policy of primary mortgage
guaranty insurance issued by an Insurer duly authorized and licensed in accordance with applicable
law and approved by the applicable Investor.

Pool   means the Mortgage Loans and related Mortgage Instruments that back the issuance
of an MBS.

Pricing Matrix   means (i) on the date of this Agreement and each date thereafter
(subject to clause (ii) of this sentence), the Execution Date Pricing Matrix and (ii) on and after
the date on which any repricing in the Execution Date Pricing Matrix first becomes effective, the
pricing matrix as then in effect pursuant to Section 3.01(b).

Prior Servicer   means any Person that was a servicer or subservicer of any Mortgage
Loan before Seller became the Servicer of the Mortgage Loan.

Private Investor Loan   means any Mortgage Loan as to which the Investor is not FNMA or
MLCC.

Purchase Price   means the Bulk Offering Purchase Price or any applicable Flow Offering
Purchase Price or Quarterly Bulk Offering Purchase Price, as the context requires.

12 

Purchaser   means Cendant Mortgage Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, and its
permitted successors and assigns, in its capacity as purchaser hereunder.

Purchaser Indemnified Parties   shall have the meaning given in Section 10.01 hereof.

Purchaser Information Sharing Notice   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan that is
not a Seller Interest Mortgage Loan, a notice sent by Purchaser to the applicable Mortgagor
thereunder that indicates that Purchaser will share the Loan Information related to his or her
Mortgage Loan with Seller.

Purchaser s Representatives   shall have the meaning given in Section 11.02(a) hereof.

Quarterly Bulk Mortgage     Loan   means (a) any Mortgage Loan purchased by Seller
through its correspondent lending network, (b) a construction loan that has been converted to a
permanent Mortgage Loan or (c) any other mortgage loan that the parties may mutually agree to
designate. Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans shall be identified by Seller after the date hereof in
the Mortgage Loan Schedule.

Quarterly Bulk Offering Purchase Price   means, with respect to any Quarterly Bulk
Mortgage Loan, the product of the outstanding principal balance thereof as of the Quarterly Bulk
Offering Sale Date and the corresponding percentage set forth on the Pricing Matrix.

Quarterly Bulk Offering Sale Date   means, with respect to any Quarterly Bulk Mortgage
Loan, the related Sale Date, which shall be the first Business Day of the calendar quarter
following such loan s becoming a Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan.

Quarterly Bulk Offering Servicing Rights   means all Servicing Rights with respect to
any Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan.

Quarterly Bulk Offering Transfer Date   means, with respect to any Quarterly Bulk
Mortgage Loan, the related Transfer Date, which shall be the first Business Day of the calendar
quarter following such loan s becoming a Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan.

Recourse Obligation   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, any obligation or
liability (actual or contingent) of the Servicer (a) for Losses incurred in connection with the
Foreclosure or other disposition of, or other realization or attempt to realize upon the collateral
securing, such Mortgage Loan (including, but not limited to, Losses relating to loss mitigation or
obtaining deeds in lieu of foreclosure); (b) to repurchase such Mortgage Loan in the event that the
Mortgagor of such Mortgage Loan is in bankruptcy, in Foreclosure or in litigation; or (c) to
repurchase such Mortgage Loan in the event of a delinquency or other payment default thereunder by
the Mortgagor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Mortgage Loan shall not be considered subject to a
Recourse Obligation solely because the Servicer retains a contingent liability to repurchase (i) a
Mortgage Loan that is determined to have been ineligible for sale to the applicable Investor due to
a breach of one or more representations and warranties, (ii) a Mortgage Loan whose interest rate
converts from an adjustable to a fixed rate (or from an adjustable rate based on one index to an
adjustable rate based on a different index), and (iii) certain Mortgage Loans with balloon
provisions containing a conditional right to refinance, pursuant to the terms of the related
Mortgage Note.

13 

Related Escrow Funds   means all funds held by Seller with respect to the Mortgage Loans
(other than the Custodial Funds), including, but not limited to, all Buydown funds, suspense funds,
assessments, ground rents, replacement reserves, tax and insurance funds, loss draft proceeds, and
other escrow and impound amounts (including interest accrued thereon held for the benefit of the
Mortgagors).

Related Escrow Funds Account   means an account in which Related Escrow Funds are held.

Relocation Loan   means any Mortgage Loan originated pursuant to an agreement between
the applicable lender (whether MLCC, one of MLCC s correspondent lenders, or otherwise) and an
employer that commonly relocates its employees in connection with a bona fide relocation program
maintained by such employer.

Relocation Loan Trailing Percentage   means, as of any date of determination after
August 1, 2000, a fraction (expressed as a percentage) whose numerator is the principal balance of
Relocation Loans included in the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans as to which Servicing Rights were
sold by Seller to Purchaser    * * *    and whose denominator is the principal balance of all such
Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans.

Remittance Date   means, with respect to each Investor, the day of each month on which
funds are required to be remitted to such Investor pursuant to the related Investor Agreement.

REO Property   means any Mortgaged Property owned in fee simple by Seller or the
applicable Investor as a result of a Foreclosure of a Mortgage Loan, or similar action.

Repricing Event   means any of the following:

(i) With respect to all Mortgage Loan Product Categories,    * * *   .

(ii) The occurrence of a material adverse change in general political or economic
conditions or a change in law, rule, regulations or generally accepted accounting
principles, which in each case materially affects the value of the Servicing Rights with
respect to one or more Mortgage Loan Product Categories.

(iii) The occurrence of (a) a Simple Monthly Mortality Rate of greater than    * * *    of
the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the Subserviced Loans, calculated using a
one-month trailing Simple Mortality Rate, and (b) the  MBA Application Refinance Index  (as
published weekly by Mortgage Bankers Association of America and published on Bloomberg under
MBAVREFI INDEX ) being    * * *   .

(iv) The occurrence of (a) a Simple Monthly Mortality Rate of greater than    * * *    of
the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the Subserviced Loans, calculated using a
one-month trailing Simple Mortality Rate and (b) the  MBA Application Refinance Index  (as
published weekly by Mortgage Bankers

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

14 

Association of America and published on Bloomberg under MBAVREFI INDEX ) being    * * *   .

(v) The Relocation Loan Trailing Percentage exceeds    * * *   ; this Repricing Event shall apply
to all Mortgage Loan Product Categories.

(vi) The Correspondent Loan Trailing Percentage exceeds    * * *   ; this Repricing Event shall
apply to all Mortgage Loan Product Categories.

Repricing Request   has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(b).

RESPA   means the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, 1.2 U.S.C.   2601 et seq., and
Regulation X, 24 C.F.R.   3500.21, thereunder, as the foregoing may be amended from time to time.

Sale Date   means (i) with respect to a Bulk Offering Mortgage Loan, the related Bulk
Offering Sale Date, (ii) with respect to a Flow Mortgage Loan, the related Flow Offering Sale Date
and (iii) with respect to a Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan, the related Quarterly Bulk Offering Sale
Date.

Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement   means the Securitized Loan Primary
Servicing Agreement dated as of the date hereof between Seller, as master servicer, and Purchaser,
as primary servicer.

Seller   means Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its
permitted successors and assigns, in its capacity as seller hereunder.

Seller Indemnified Parties   shall have the meaning given in Section 10.03 hereto.

Seller Information Sharing Notice   means a notice sent by Seller to the applicable
Mortgagor that indicates that Seller will share the Loan Information related to his or her Mortgage
Loan with one or more Affiliates of Seller.

Seller Interest Mortgage Loan   means any Mortgage Loan (a) that is subject to the terms
and provisions of the Subservicing Agreement, the Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement or
the MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement or (b) that is an Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan.

Seller s Representatives   shall have the meaning given in Section 11.02(a) hereof.

Servicer   means the party contractually obligated to administer the Servicing Rights
under the Investor Agreements.

Servicing Fee   means the amount to be paid to the Servicer under the applicable
Investor Agreement related to a Mortgage Loan as consideration for servicing the Mortgage Loan.

Servicing Rights   means, with respect to all Mortgage Loans, all of the rights and
obligations of Seller, as Servicer, pursuant to the Investor Agreements, including but not limited

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

15 

to the right and obligation to service, administer, collect the payments for the reduction of
principal and application of interest, pay taxes and insurance, remit collected payments, provide
foreclosure services, provide full escrow administration and any other obligations required by any
Investor (including the obligation to repurchase from the applicable Investor any such Mortgage
Loan whose interest rate converts from an adjustable to a fixed rate, or from an adjustable rate
based on one index to an adjustable rate based on a different index, and certain Mortgage Loans
with balloon provisions containing a conditional right to refinance, pursuant to the terms of the
related Mortgage Note) or Insurer in, of, or for such Mortgage Loans pursuant to the Investor
Agreements, together with the right to receive (i) the Servicing Fee, (ii) the Excess Yield, if
any, on the Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans (but not on the Flow Mortgage Loans or Quarterly Bulk
Mortgage Loans), (iii) any Ancillary Fees arising from or connected to such Mortgage Loans and (iv)
all applicable net interest earnings on any related Custodial Funds Account and Related Escrow
Funds Account balances (to the extent permitted by applicable law), but in any event excluding the
rights and obligations of Seller, as Servicer, pursuant to the Investor Agreements to service and
administer the Additional Collateral under the Additional Collateral Agreements. The term
  Servicing Rights   shall refer to the Bulk Offering Servicing Rights, the Flow Offering
Servicing Rights, the Quarterly Bulk Offering Servicing Rights, or any or all of them, as
applicable.

Set-up File   means, as to Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans collectively, copies of the
following documents:

(a) Mortgage insurance certificate;

(b) Hazard, flood and other insurance policies, if applicable (may consist of application and
paid receipt);

(c) Legal description;

(d) Settlement statement (HUD1);

(e) Mortgage Note with riders;

(f) Buydown agreement, if applicable;

(g) For wholesale and correspondent loans, the related funding sheet;

(h) ACH enrollment form; and

(i) Appraisal report (pages 1 and 2).

Simple Monthly Mortality Rate   means, with respect to any calendar month, an indicator
of the level of prepayment of a static pool of loans, calculated by dividing the balance of that
pool of loans at the end of that month by the balance of that pool of loans at the beginning of
that month, and subtracting the resulting quotient from one.

16 

Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans   means Mortgage Loans originated after March 10, 2000.
Such Mortgage Loans shall be identified by Seller after the date hereof in the Mortgage Loan
Schedule.

Subsequent Flow Offering Purchase Price   means, with respect to any Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loan, the product of the outstanding principal balance thereof as of the Subsequent Flow
Offering Sale Date and the corresponding percentage set forth in the Pricing Matrix.

Subsequent Flow Offering Sale Date   means, with respect to any Subsequent Flow Mortgage
Loan, the date on which such loan is originated.

Subsequent Flow Offering Servicing Rights   means all Servicing Rights with respect to
the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans.

Subsequent Flow Offering Transfer Date   means, with respect to any Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loan, the related Transfer Date, which shall coincide with the related Subsequent Flow
Offering Sale Date.

Subserviced Loan   means any mortgage loan subject to the Subservicing Agreement or the
Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement.

Subservicing Agreement   means the Loan Subservicing Agreement dated as of the date
hereof between Seller, as master servicer, and Purchaser, as subservicer.

Third Party Consent   means the written consent or approval of an Investor (and, if
applicable, each rating agency, surety, certificate insurer and other party) which consent or
approval is required under the related Investor Agreement to effect a transfer of the applicable
Servicing Rights from Seller to Purchaser).

Trading Account   means, with respect to any Additional Collateral Mortgage Loan as to
which a Pledge Agreement was made, the account in which the securities and other assets that are
subject to such Pledge Agreement are held.

Transaction Agreements   means this Agreement, the Securitized Loan Primary Servicing
Agreement, the Subservicing Agreement, the Permission Agreement and the MLCC Portfolio Servicing
Agreement.

Transfer Date   means, with respect to any Mortgage Loan, the date on which Purchaser
begins physically servicing such Mortgage Loan.

Transfer Instructions   means the instructions set forth at Exhibit F hereto detailing
the procedures pursuant to which Seller shall effect the transfer of the Servicing Rights, Mortgage
Files, Advances, Custodial Funds, Related Escrow Funds, and other documents, reports and files to
Purchaser. To the extent of a conflict between the Transfer Instructions and this Agreement, this
Agreement shall control. The Transfer Instructions shall not apply to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage
Loans.

TRETS   means Transamerica Real Estate Tax Service.

17 

Section 1.02.   General  .

The terms defined herein include the plural as well as the singular and the singular as well
as the plural.

18 

ARTICLE II.  
  SALE OF SERVICING RIGHTS AND RELATED ITEMS  

Section 2.01.   Items to be Sold  .

(a) Subject to, and upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement, from time to time during
the term of this Agreement, as hereinafter provided, Seller shall sell, transfer, and assign to
Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase and assume from Seller, all right, title, interest, and
obligation of Seller in and to the applicable (i) Servicing Rights and all rights related thereto
(but not the right to service the Additional Collateral), including, but not limited to, the right
to receive the Servicing Fee and Ancillary Fee; (ii) Advances; (iii) Custodial Funds; (iv) Related
Escrow Funds; (v) Mortgage Files; (vi) Investor Agreements; (vii) other documents and records
relating to the Mortgage Loans and (viii) the obligation to repurchase from the applicable Investor
any Mortgage Loan whose interest rate converts from an adjustable to a fixed rate, or from an
adjustable rate based on one index to an adjustable rate based on a different index, and certain
Mortgage Loans with balloon provisions containing a conditional right to refinance, pursuant to the
terms of the related Mortgage Note. For the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans and Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loans, Seller agrees that during the term of this Agreement, Seller (i) shall sell,
transfer, and assign to Purchaser the Servicing Rights with respect to substantially all Mortgage
Loans originated or acquired by Seller and (ii) shall not sell, transfer or assign such Servicing
Rights to any third party other than Purchaser; but Seller, in its sole discretion, shall
nevertheless be entitled to retain the Servicing Rights to certain Mortgage Loans it designates;
provided, however, that with respect to clause (ii) of this sentence, the aggregate principal
balance of such retained Mortgage Loans shall not exceed $   * * *    in any calendar quarter
(excluding (A) Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, (B) Mortgage Loans in Mortgage Loan Product
Categories created by Seller after the date hereof and for which Seller and Purchaser are unable to
reach agreement on an appropriate purchase price for the related Servicing Rights and (C) any other
Mortgage Loan types that Purchaser is not operationally able to service).

(b) In connection with each sale and transfer of Servicing Rights contemplated herein,
Purchaser will assume only those contractual duties, obligations, and liabilities of Seller that
(i) accrue on or after each applicable Sale Date and (ii) directly arise in connection with
Purchaser s acquisition, ownership, and use of the Servicing Rights. Purchaser will not assume or
otherwise be responsible for in any way whatsoever any other duties, obligations, or liabilities
of, or claims against, Seller or Seller s shareholders (or any of their respective agents,
officers, directors, trustees, or Affiliates) that accrue or otherwise relate to the period before
each applicable Sale Date with respect to the Servicing Rights or otherwise;  provided ,
 however , that subject to Seller s indemnification obligation set forth in Section 10.01
hereof, Purchaser will assume liabilities to Investors with respect to the Servicing Rights that
accrue before each applicable Sale Date, but only to the extent that such assumption is a
condition, evidenced in writing and accepted by Purchaser, to the consent by the applicable
Investor to the transfer of such Servicing Rights to Purchaser.

Section 2.02.   Sale Date  .

On each applicable Sale Date, Seller shall sell, transfer, and assign to Purchaser, and
Purchaser shall purchase and assume from Seller, all of Seller s beneficial right, title, and
interest in and to the applicable (i) Servicing Rights and all rights and obligations related
thereto (but not

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

19 

the right to service the Additional Collateral), including, but not limited to, the right to
receive the Servicing Fees and Ancillary Fee accruing on and after such Sale Date; (ii) Advances;
(iii) Custodial Funds; (iv) Related Escrow Funds; (v) Mortgage Files; (vi) Investor Agreements;
(vii) other documents and records relating to the Mortgage Loans and (viii) the obligation to
repurchase from the applicable Investor any Mortgage Loan whose interest rate converts from an
adjustable to a fixed rate, or from an adjustable rate based on one index to an adjustable rate
based on a different index, and certain Mortgage Loans with balloon provisions containing a
conditional right to refinance, pursuant to the terms of the related Mortgage Note.

Section 2.03.   Transfer Date  .

(a) On each Transfer Date, Seller shall transfer and assign to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall
assume from Seller, all of Seller s legal right, title, and interest in and to the applicable (i)
Servicing Rights and all rights and obligations related thereto (but not the right to service the
Additional Collateral), including, but not limited to, the right to receive the applicable
Servicing Fees and Ancillary Fee accruing on and after the related Sale Date; (ii) Advances; (iii)
Custodial Funds; (iv) Related Escrow Funds; (v) Mortgage Files; (vi) Investor Agreements; (vii)
other documents and records relating to the Mortgage Loans and (viii) the obligation to repurchase
from the applicable investor any Mortgage Loan whose interest rate converts from an adjustable to a
fixed rate, or from an adjustable rate based on one index to an adjustable rate based on a
different index, and certain Mortgage Loans with balloon provisions containing a conditional right
to refinance, pursuant to the terms of the related Mortgage Note.

(b) On the Bulk Offering Transfer Date and the Initial Flow Offering Transfer Date, Seller
shall cease to be the interim servicer with respect to any Mortgage Loans it is interim servicing
for Purchaser pursuant to Section 4.03 and shall effect the physical transfer of the applicable
servicing in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Transfer Instructions. On each Subsequent Flow Offering Transfer Date, Seller shall effect the
transfer of the applicable Servicing Rights in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement and in the Transfer Instructions.

Section 2.04.   Evidence of Sale  .

Before each Transfer Date, Purchaser and Seller shall execute and deliver the documents, if any,
required by the Investor(s) in connection with the transfer of the applicable Servicing Rights, in
form and substance satisfactory to Purchaser and Seller. Purchaser and Seller, subject to the
terms of this Agreement, shall also execute and deliver such other instruments or documents as
Purchaser and Seller shall reasonably determine are necessary to evidence the transactions
contemplated hereby.

20 

ARTICLE III.  
  CONSIDERATION AND PAYMENTS  

Section 3.01.   Purchase Price  .

(a) In full consideration of each sale and transfer of the Servicing Rights, Purchaser shall
pay to Seller, subject to the terms of this Agreement and in accordance with Section 3.02 hereof,
the Bulk Offering Purchase Price, Flow Offering Purchase Price or Quarterly Bulk Offering Purchase
Price, as applicable, subject to any agreed-upon adjustments. Seller (i) shall not be entitled to
receive any Purchase Price from Purchaser for the Servicing Rights to any Mortgage Loan that as of
the applicable Sale Date (A) is 60 days or more past due (including Mortgage Loans in foreclosure
proceedings), (B) is in Litigation or (C) has a Mortgagor who is in bankruptcy and (ii) shall pay
Purchaser  $   * *
*     per Mortgage Loan upon Seller s assignment, to Purchaser, of the Servicing
Rights to any such Mortgage Loan.

(b) (i) Within the sixty-day period following the occurrence of a Repricing Event,
either party to this Agreement may make a written request to the other party (a  Repricing
Request ) that the Pricing Matrix be amended with respect to any Mortgage Loan Product
Category to which such Repricing Event relates, and any such Repricing Request shall be
accompanied by a copy of the proposed amended Pricing Matrix prepared by the requesting
party. If Purchaser and Seller agree to adopt the proposed amended Pricing Matrix, it
shall become effective on the first Business Day of the calendar quarter immediately
following the date of such adoption.

(ii) If, within 30 days after the date on which a Repricing Request was delivered
hereunder by one party to the other pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(i), Purchaser and Seller
are unable to agree on the terms of an amended Pricing Matrix with respect to a Mortgage
Loan Product Category as to which such Repricing Request was made, each of them shall
engage the services of a separate Arbitrator, which shall use commercially reasonable
methods to determine the appropriate pricing for the sale of Servicing Rights related to
such Mortgage Loan Product Category, taking into account, among other things, the
requirements of this Agreement, including without limitation the Operations Guide. The
results of the two Arbitrators  determinations shall be averaged to arrive at the pricing
to be specified in the amended Pricing Matrix with respect to such Mortgage Loan Product
Category. If, following the Arbitrators  determinations, the proposed amended Pricing
Matrix is agreed to by Seller and Purchaser, it shall become effective on the first
Business Day of the calendar quarter immediately following the date on which the first
Arbitrator is retained. The parties agree to exchange appropriate documentation
supporting the opinions of their respective Arbitrators. The then-current Pricing Matrix
shall remain in effect until the proposed amended Pricing Matrix goes into effect. If one
of the parties to this Agreement reasonably, and in good faith, rejects the proposed
amended Pricing Matrix following the Arbitrators  determinations, that party shall have
the right to terminate this Agreement upon 180 days  prior written notice to the other
party. In any event, each party shall pay the fees and costs associated with the
Arbitrator it engages.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

21 

Section 3.02.   Payment of Purchase Price and Other Amounts  .

Purchaser shall pay the Purchase Price to Seller as follows:

(a)   Sale Dates  . For the Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans,
Purchaser shall pay Seller     * *
*     of the applicable Estimated Purchase Price by wire transfer of immediately available funds on
the applicable Sale Date. For the Initial Flow Mortgage Loans, Purchaser shall pay Seller
    * *
*     of the applicable Purchase Price by wire transfer of immediately available funds within three (3)
Business Days after the applicable Sale Date. Such payments (or, if applicable, the related
portion thereof) shall be returned by Seller to Purchaser:

(i) together with interest thereon at the daily Federal Funds Rate in effect from the
date of any such payment by Purchaser to the date Seller returns such payment (or, if
applicable, the related portion thereof) to Purchaser, if the transfer of the physical
servicing of any Mortgage Loan does not occur on the related Transfer Date, or extension
thereof, because (x) the conditions precedent set forth in Article VIII are not met or (y)
Seller fails to comply with the terms of this Agreement, or

(ii) without interest, if the transfer of the physical servicing of any Mortgage Loan
does not occur on the related Transfer Date, or extension thereof, because (x) the condition
precedent set forth in Section 9.03 is not satisfied or (y) Purchaser fails to comply with
the terms of this Agreement.

Concurrently with Seller s return of the payments, or any portion thereof (and, if applicable,
interest), described in this Section 3.02(a), Purchaser shall reconvey the related Servicing Rights
and associated documents to Seller in accordance with Section 7.01(b)(ii) and the penultimate
sentence of Section 7.01(b). In addition to the foregoing rights, the aggrieved party shall have
all additional rights and remedies afforded to such party under this Agreement.

(b)   Payment Date  . Subject to Seller s compliance with all terms and conditions
required to be complied with pursuant to this Agreement and the Transfer Instructions on or before
the related Transfer Date, on the related Payment Date Purchaser shall pay to Seller, by wire
transfer of immediately available funds, with respect to the Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans and
Initial Flow Mortgage Loans, the applicable Purchase Price less the amount paid with respect to
such loans pursuant to Section 3.02(a). With respect to any Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loan other
than a Cendant Mortgage Loan, Purchaser shall pay Seller the applicable Purchase Price by wire
transfer of immediately available funds within three (3) Business Days after Purchaser s receipt of
the related Set-up File, as provided for herein. Purchaser shall provide Seller with documentation
containing Seller s loan number and the outstanding principal balance for each Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loan for which the Purchase Price is wire transferred to Seller. With respect to
Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, Purchaser shall pay Seller the applicable Purchase Price by wire
transfer of immediately available funds on the related Payment Date. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained herein or in the Operations Guide, with respect to each Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loan that is also a Cendant Mortgage Loan, (i) Seller shall have no obligation to deliver
a Set-up File or Mortgage File to Purchaser and (ii) Purchaser shall pay Seller the related
Purchase Price by wire transfer of immediately available funds within five (5) Business Days after
such Mortgage Loan is closed.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

22 

(c)   Adjustments Based on Pay-Offs  . Except for Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans, on
each applicable Payment Date, Seller will (i) provide Purchaser with a schedule of Payoff Loans;
and (ii) Purchaser will net out an amount equal to the portion of the Purchase Price already paid
pursuant to Section 3.02(a) applicable to the Payoff Loans from the Purchase Price paid to Seller.
Seller will reimburse Purchaser the portion of the Purchase Price already paid for any Subsequent
Flow Mortgage Loan that becomes a Payoff Loan within ninety (90) days from the Sale Date. Seller
shall remit such payment to Purchaser by wire transfer of immediately available funds within five
(5) Business Days after receipt of an invoice from Purchaser, which invoice shall indicate the name
of the Mortgagor, Seller s loan number and the date of the payoff.

(d)   Adjustments Based on Errors  . If, subsequent to each applicable payment of the
Purchase Price or each applicable payment of any other amounts due under this Agreement to either
party, the Purchase Price or such other amounts are found to be in error, including, but not
limited to, the existence of updated balance information, the party benefiting from the error shall
pay to the other party, within five (5) Business Days after the receipt of information sufficient
to provide notice that payment is due, an amount sufficient to correct and reconcile the Purchase
Price, or such other amounts and shall provide the other party with a reconciliation statement and
such other documentation sufficient to reasonably satisfy the other party concerning the accuracy
of such reconciliation.

(e)   Payment of Advances  . (i) Upon receipt of the schedule required in Section 4.14,
Purchaser shall wire transfer the agreed-upon documented principal and interest Advances, net of
prepaid amounts, if any, to Seller on the Business Day immediately preceding the day that the
applicable Investor remittance is due and (ii) with regard to any other Advances, subject to
Purchaser s verification of the amount due, Purchaser shall wire transfer the agreed-upon Advances
to Seller, on or before the tenth (10 th ) Business Day following each applicable Transfer
Date.

Section 3.03.   Verification of Purchase Price and Other Amounts  .

As soon as possible, but no later than each applicable Adjustment Date, Seller shall determine, as
of the applicable Sale Date, from its books and records and promptly notify Purchaser in writing
of: (i) the aggregate outstanding principal balance of all Mortgage Loans relating to the
Servicing Rights then being transferred; (ii) the amount of all Advances relating to the Servicing
Rights then being transferred; and (iii) the amount of all Custodial Funds and Related Escrow Funds
relating to the Servicing Rights then being transferred. Except for the Subsequent Flow Mortgage
Loans, all such accounts shall be reconciled by Seller to its EDP reports and to reports made to
the applicable Investors.

23 

ARTICLE IV.  
  COVENANTS  

Section 4.01.   Mortgage Loan Information  .

(a) From and after each applicable Transfer Date, Purchaser agrees that, for each Seller
Interest Mortgage Loan, it shall supply the Loan Information for each applicable Mortgagor to
Seller on a daily basis in accordance with the specific timing, transfer, and other requirements
set forth in the Operations Guide.

(b) From and after each applicable Transfer Date, Purchaser agrees that, for each Mortgage
Loan that is not a Seller Interest Mortgage Loan, it shall supply the Loan Information for each
applicable Mortgagor to Seller on a daily basis in accordance with the specific timing, transfer,
and other requirements set forth in the Operations Guide, provided that the applicable Mortgagor
has been provided a Purchaser Information Sharing Notice and has not contacted Purchaser to request
that Purchaser not disseminate the Loan Information to Seller.

(c) Seller and Purchaser acknowledge that it is Purchaser s obligation to send a Purchaser
Information Sharing Notice to each applicable Mortgagor and that it is Seller s obligation to send
a Seller Information Sharing Notice to each applicable Mortgagor. Seller and Purchaser therefore
agree to combine their respective notice obligations into one notice and agree that the form and
content of the Information Sharing Notice forms attached hereto as   Composite Exhibit B   are
acceptable; provided, that, with respect to the Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans, the Initial Flow
Mortgage Loans, and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, the applicable form is mailed to each
applicable Mortgagor together with the notice of the transfer of Servicing Rights required by RESPA
and, with respect to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans, the applicable form is included in the
closing package pertaining to each applicable Mortgagor.

(d) In connection with any Mortgage Loan (i) that is not a Seller Interest Mortgage Loan and
(ii) as to which the Mortgagor thereunder has Opted-out, Purchaser agrees that it shall
nevertheless provide the Loan Information to Seller with respect to such Mortgage Loan in the
aggregate (as described in the Operations Guide in paragraphs D and E under the heading  Reporting
Requirements ) with the Loan Information of other Mortgagors so long as the information supplied to
Seller relating to the Mortgagor who Opted-out cannot be linked to such Mortgagor.

(e) Seller and Purchaser acknowledge that, to the best of their respective knowledge, their
respective obligations to provide Information Sharing Notices and to supply the Loan Information
are permitted by, and comply with, the Applicable Requirements. Prospectively, in the event that
either party to this Agreement believes, in good faith, that there has been a change in the
Applicable Requirements that may affect either (i) the dissemination of the Loan Information from
Purchaser to Seller, (ii) the manner in which the Loan Information is disseminated from Purchaser
to Seller, or (iii) the form, content, or delivery of the required form of Information Sharing
Notice, then such party shall provide written notice to the other of the purported change in the
Applicable Requirements. Thereafter, the parties hereto shall work in good faith to address the
effect of the purported change; in the Applicable Requirements and to resolve the same, in a manner
that is reasonably acceptable in good faith to both parties and that will allow Purchaser to
continue to

24 

supply to Seller as much of the Loan Information as is then possible given the applicable change in
the Applicable Requirements. If (i) in Seller s judgment, Purchaser s interpretation of the
purported change in the Applicable Requirements is adverse to Seller, (ii) Seller disagrees with
that interpretation and (iii) Seller and Purchaser are unable to resolve such disagreement in a
mutually acceptable manner, as described above, within thirty days of the delivery of the written
notice required by this Section 4.01(e), Seller may, at its option, terminate this Agreement and
any or all other Transaction Agreements. In addition, Seller may, at its option, terminate this
Agreement and any or all other Transaction Agreements if the parties agree that a change in the
Applicable Requirements restricts in any way the information Purchaser is to share with Seller.

(f) Seller acknowledges and agrees that it will not use or disseminate the Loan Information in
violation of the Applicable Requirements.

(g) Seller shall indemnify Purchaser against any and all Losses incurred by Purchaser to the
extent that such Losses result from, are caused by, or arise out of Purchaser s compliance with
Section 4.01(a) with respect to Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans or Subserviced Loans.

Section 4.02.   Confidentiality of Mortgage Loan Information  :.

With respect to each Mortgage Loan that is not a Seller Interest Mortgage Loan, Seller shall
not disclose, and shall cause its employees not to disclose, any Loan Information provided to it
hereunder, including, but not limited to, the names and/or addresses of such Mortgagors, to any
Person other than to (i) Affiliates of Seller, provided that the applicable Mortgagor has not
Opted-out, and (ii) the Mortgagor to whom the applicable Loan Information relates. The foregoing
notwithstanding, however, nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit Seller or any of Seller s
Affiliates from disseminating such Loan Information if necessary to comply with applicable law.

Section 4.03.   Interim Servicing  .

(a) With respect to any Mortgage Loan as to which Servicing Rights are being sold and assigned
by Seller to Purchaser under this Agreement, Seller shall perform the obligations related to such
Servicing Rights during the related MLCC Interim Servicing Period in accordance with Applicable
Requirements and with the same care, customer service and operating standards that Seller uses to
service comparable mortgage loans for its own portfolio.

(b) Purchaser shall pay Seller the Base MLCC Interim Servicing Fee for each Mortgage Loan
interim-serviced by Seller pursuant to this Agreement for each preceding calendar month or portion
thereof during the related MLCC Interim Servicing Period (whether or not a collection is received
on such Mortgage Loan). Seller shall be entitled to retain all ancillary income with respect
thereto, and all net interest earnings, on the related Custodial Funds Account and Related Escrow
Funds Account balances for the preceding calendar month (such income and earnings, together with
the Base MLCC Interim Servicing Fee, the  MLCC Interim Servicing Compensation ). During the
related MLCC Interim Servicing Period for each Mortgage Loan then being interim serviced by Seller,
Seller shall (i) remit monthly to Purchaser, on each Remittance Date, all Servicing Fees (net of
the MLCC Interim Servicing Compensation) actually received by

25 

Seller pursuant to this Agreement during the preceding calendar month and (ii) no later than the
Business Day prior to such Remittance Date, provide Purchaser with a reconciliation of all
Servicing Fees and all related reports. If the interest collected in any month on each Mortgage
Loan and allocated to pay the Servicing Fee under the related Investor Agreements is insufficient
to pay Seller the full amount of the related Base MLCC Interim Servicing Fee for such month, then
Purchaser shall pay Seller the shortfall on the related Remittance Date.

(c) Subject to Section 4.03(d) hereof, Purchaser shall remain responsible for all Losses
directly associated with the servicing of the Mortgage Loans, except for (i) all or any portion of
such Losses resulting from the failure of Seller to comply with Applicable Requirements or
otherwise perform or observe its obligations under this Agreement, for which Losses Seller shall
remain responsible and (ii) any fact or circumstance in respect of which Purchaser is entitled to
indemnification by Seller under this Agreement.

(d) Seller shall: (i) make prompt and proper application for, and diligently pursue,
insurance settlements, reimbursement from Investors (if appropriate), claims against third parties
for indemnification or repurchase, and enforcement of the Mortgage Loan Documents against the
Mortgagors; (ii) obtain the requisite quality services and products from Outsource Vendors, not in
excess of reasonable and customary levels, giving Purchaser the benefit of any discounts therefor
to which Seller may be entitled and without mark-up by Seller; (iii) defend and/or appeal any
request or demand by an Investor or Insurer for repurchase of, or indemnification with respect to,
a Mortgage Loan; (iv) not make Advances deemed not to be recoverable, except to the extent required
by Applicable Requirements; (v) consult with Purchaser before undertaking or electing not to take
discretionary actions that could result in material cost or liability to Purchaser; unless
consultation is not commercially feasible; and (vi) service delinquent Mortgage Loans, Foreclosures
and REO Properties in the same manner as Seller would service mortgage loans for its own account.

(e) It is further understood and agreed that Seller shall be solely responsible for the direct
and indirect general and administrative costs and expenses associated with the servicing of the
Mortgage Loans, including, without limitation, Seller s personnel, facilities, supplies, postage
and Seller s EDP expenses, relating to the manner in which Seller generally services mortgage loans
(which may include the Mortgage Loans), regardless of whether Seller elects to contract with
Outsource Vendors to perform all or any portion of such general and administrative functions.

(f) Subject to the other subsections of this Section 4.03 hereof and any right of
reimbursement from subsequent payments from Mortgagors, Investors, Insurers and liquidation
proceeds, Purchaser agrees to bear the economic risk of all Advances, except for (i) any portion of
those Advances resulting from Seller s failure to comply with Applicable Requirements or otherwise
perform or observe its obligations under this Agreement, for which Advances Seller shall remain
responsible and (ii) any interest that must be advanced with regard to a paid-in-full Mortgage
Loan, pursuant to Section 4.03(d) above.

26 

Section 4.04.   Third Party Consents  .

Seller shall use its best efforts to obtain all required Third Party Consents in accordance
with Section 7.01 hereof. Seller shall pay any and all costs of securing such consents,
including, but not limited to, any fees charged by the Investor for the transfer of the Servicing
Rights.

Section 4.05.   Interest on Related Escrow Funds  .

Except with respect to Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans, Seller shall pay interest on Related
Escrow Funds on, and accrued through, the Business Day preceding each applicable Transfer Date to
the extent interest with respect to the applicable Related Escrow Funds Accounts is required to be
paid by Applicable Requirements for the benefit of Mortgagors under the Mortgage Loans. Seller
shall deposit the interest earned on Related Escrow Funds in the applicable Related Escrow Funds
Account on or before each applicable Transfer Date. With regard to loss draft proceeds, Seller
shall credit to the related account any interest for loss draft proceeds on, and accrued through,
the Business Day preceding each applicable Transfer Date. No interest will be required to be paid
by Seller pursuant to this Section 4.05 with respect to Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans or, if not
required by Applicable Requirements, with respect to any Mortgage Loan.

Section 4.06.   Escrow Disbursements and Obligations  .

(a)   Taxes  . (i) In connection with any Mortgage Loan (other than a Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loan) with respect to which Seller maintains a Related Escrow Funds Account for taxes,
Seller shall pay all taxes with respect to which the related tax bill is due before the thirtieth
(30th) day following each applicable Transfer Date and for which the related tax bill was received
by Seller or any applicable Outsource Vendor five (5) Business Days before each applicable Transfer
Date, and (ii) Seller shall be responsible for any tax penalties, costs, and losses (including any
loss of discount for which any Mortgagor or any third party for the benefit of the Mortgagor has a
legal claim) arising in connection with any Mortgage Loan (other than a Subsequent Flow Mortgage
Loan) with respect to which: (A) Seller maintains a Related Escrow Funds Account for taxes; (B)
the related tax bill was due before the thirtieth (30th) day following each applicable Transfer
Date; and (C) the related tax bill was received by Seller or any applicable Outsource Vendor five
(5) Business Days before each applicable Transfer Date. Seller shall have no responsibility for
payment of tax bills with respect to Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans.

(b)   Insurance  . In connection with any Mortgage Loan (other than a Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loan) with respect to which Seller maintains a Related Escrow Funds Account for insurance,
Seller shall pay all hazard, flood, earthquake, PMI Policy, and other insurance premiums
( Insurance Premiums ) that are due before the thirtieth (30) day following each applicable
Transfer Date and for which the related Insurance Premium bill was received by Seller or any
applicable Outsource Vendor five (5) Business Days before each applicable Transfer Date, and (ii)
Seller shall be responsible for any penalties, costs, and losses arising in connection with any
Mortgage Loan (other than a Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loan) with respect to which: (A) Seller
maintains a Related Escrow Funds Account for Insurance Premiums; (B) the related Insurance Premium
bill was due before the thirtieth (30th) day following each applicable Transfer Date; and (C) the
related Insurance Premium bill was received by Seller or any
applicable Outsource Vendor five (5)

27 

Business Days before each applicable Transfer Date. Seller shall have no responsibility for
payment of Insurance Premium bills with respect to Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans.

(c)   Escrow Analysis  . (i) No later than three (3) Business Days after each Transfer
Date, Seller shall provide Purchaser with copies of the most recent escrow analysis for all
applicable Mortgage Loans (other than Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans); and (ii) Seller shall
complete an escrow analysis at least thirty (30) days prior to the applicable Transfer Date on all
applicable Mortgage Loans (other than Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans) that have an escrow analysis
due by such Transfer Date, and the results of these escrow analyses shall appear on its EDP system.

Section 4.07.   Notice to Mortgagors  .

No later than fifteen (15) days before each applicable Transfer Date (other than a Subsequent
Flow Offering Transfer Date), unless earlier notification is required by Applicable Requirements,
Seller and Purchaser shall jointly deliver to each applicable Mortgagor a letter advising the
Mortgagor of the transfer of Servicing Rights contemplated herein. Such letters shall comply with
all Applicable Requirements, including, but not limited to, RESPA. At least twenty (20) days
before the Bulk Offering Transfer Date and the Initial Flow Offering Transfer Date, Seller and
Purchaser shall review the form of the letter for compliance with the Applicable Requirements. All
costs of preparing and delivering such letters shall be shared equally by Seller and Purchaser.

With respect to each Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loan, at the closing thereof Seller and
Purchaser shall jointly deliver to the related Mortgagor a letter advising the Mortgagor of the
transfer of Servicing Rights contemplated herein.

Section 4.08.   Notice to Tax Service Provider  .

(a)   Notices  . Not less than fifteen (15) days before each applicable Transfer Date
(other than a Subsequent Flow Offering Transfer Date), Seller shall deliver written notices of the
transfer of Servicing Rights contemplated herein to Seller s tax service provider. At Purchaser s
request, Seller shall provide an officer s certificate to the effect that Seller has mailed such
notices at least 15 days before each Transfer Date. Such notice shall instruct such entity to
deliver, from and after each applicable Transfer Date, all applicable payments, notices, bills,
statements, records, files, histories, support documents, and other documents to Purchaser.

(b)   Costs and Compliance  . Seller shall be responsible for the cost of preparing and
delivering the notices described in this Section.

Section 4.09.   Notice to Insurance Companies and Payment of Insurance Premiums  .

(a)   Notices  . Not less than fifteen (15) days before each applicable Transfer Date
(other than a Subsequent Flow Offering Transfer Date), Seller shall deliver written notices of the
transfer of Servicing Rights contemplated herein to each of Seller s Insurers (other than with
respect to Co-op Loans). At Purchaser s request, Seller shall provide an officer s certificate to
the effect that Seller has mailed such notices at least 15 days before each Transfer Date. Such
notices shall instruct such entities to deliver, from and after each applicable Transfer Date, all
applicable payments, notices, bills, statements, records, files, histories, support documents, and
other

28 

documents to Purchaser. All such notices sent to hazard, flood, earthquake, private mortgage
guarantee, forced-placed and other insurers shall comply with the requirements of the applicable
master policies and shall instruct such insurers to change the mortgagee clause to  Cendant
Mortgage Corporation, its successors and/or assigns,  in the format required under Applicable
Requirements.

(b)   Costs and Compliance  . Seller shall be responsible for the cost of preparing and
delivering the notices described in this Section.

(c)   Payment of PMI Premiums  . Other than with respect to Subsequent Flow Mortgage
Loans, Seller shall pay, on or before each applicable Transfer Date, all applicable PMI premiums
due and payable in the month of transfer for which Seller has received a related bill at least five
(5) Business Days prior to the applicable Transfer Date.

Section 4.10.   Purchaser to Service ARM Loans  .

Purchaser shall service the ARM Loans in accordance with all Applicable Requirements. If
Purchaser fails to service an ARM Loan in a manner consistent with the Applicable Requirements,
Purchaser shall notify Seller within ten (10) Business Days of obtaining Knowledge of such failure
and shall take all appropriate actions required to correct any such servicing deficiencies so that
such loans are thereafter serviced in compliance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Purchaser shall be solely responsible for any costs and expenses required to effectuate such
remediation, except to the extent that any such servicing deficiency was the continuation by
Purchaser of a failure by Seller or any Prior Servicer to service an ARM Loan in accordance with
the Applicable Requirements (other than the Purchaser s continuation of such previous servicing
practices after the Purchaser knew or should have known that such previous servicing practices
violated the Applicable Requirements).

Purchaser shall take such additional corrective action as may be directed by Seller, the cost
of which shall be the sole responsibility of Seller.

Section 4.11.   Tax Contracts  .

(a) Seller shall cause TRETS to work with Purchaser s designated tax service provider to
deliver a comprehensive ADDS tape (AB383) for all Mortgage Loans (other than (i) Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loans, (ii) Mortgage Loans secured by Mortgaged Properties in Guam and Puerto Rico and
(iii) Co-op Loans), whether escrowed or non-escrowed, no later than the applicable Delivery Date.

(b) Not less than thirty (30) days before each applicable Transfer Date(other than Subsequent
Flow Offering Transfer Dates and Quarterly Bulk Offering Transfer Dates), Seller shall provide
Purchaser with the most recent TRETS audit of Seller s EDP system (AB40 loan audit) that reviewed
whether Seller s EDP system is accurately populated with all tax contract data required by
Purchaser to service the Bulk Offering Mortgage Loans.

(c) With respect to all Mortgage Loans other than (i) Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans, (ii)
Mortgage Loans secured by Mortgaged Properties in Guam and Puerto Rico and (iii) Co-op Loans,
Seller shall transfer the related TRETS life-of-loan contracts to Purchaser s designated

29 

tax service provider on the applicable Transfer Date. Within 60 days after each Transfer Date,
Purchaser shall provide Seller with a listing of all such Mortgage Loans for which Purchaser s
designated tax service provider did not receive the anticipated tax contract information from
TRETS. Seller shall have 30 days after receiving the listing to reconcile it and, for each such
Mortgage Loan that did not have a life-of-loan tax service contract, shall remit to Purchaser (x) a
fee of $   * * *    to purchase a tax service contract or (y)    * * *    to purchase a tax service
contract for such Mortgage Loan.

(d) With respect to each Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loan other than (i) Mortgage Loans secured
by Mortgaged Properties in Guam and Puerto Rico and (ii) Co-op Loans, Seller shall charge the
related Mortgagor (x) a fee of $   * * *    to purchase a tax service contract or (y)    * * *   to
purchase a tax service contract for such Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loan. Seller shall collect the
applicable fee from the related Mortgagor and shall remit it to Purchaser (or, if Seller fails to
collect the fee from the related Mortgagor, Seller shall remit the fee to Purchaser out of Seller s
own funds), and Purchaser shall apply the fee to the cost of purchasing a tax service contract.

(e) Purchaser shall notify Seller if the cost of purchasing a tax service contract for a
Mortgage Loan is less than $   * * *   .

Section 4.12.   Mortgage Loan Payments  .

Before each applicable Transfer Date, Seller shall apply, in accordance with Applicable
Requirements, all Mortgage Loan Payments received by it with respect to each applicable Mortgage
Loan. For a period of forty-five (45) days following each applicable Transfer Date, Seller at its
own expense shall forward all applicable Mortgage Loan Payments to Purchaser by overnight delivery
as soon as possible, but in no event later than two Business Days following Seller s receipt
thereof. After forty-five (45) days following each applicable Transfer Date, Seller shall forward
such Mortgage Loan Payments to Purchaser by first class mail within two Business Days following
Seller s receipt thereof. Seller shall endorse each check evidencing a Mortgage Loan Payment to
the order of Purchaser and provide Purchaser with sufficient information, as required by the
Transfer Instructions, to process each such Mortgage Loan Payment.

Section 4.13.   Assignments  .

(a) Assignments

(1) There shall be no assignments for Mortgage Loans for which the
Seller is the Investor or for MERS FNMA Loans.

(2) Private Investor Loans shall only be assigned to Purchaser if such
loans are held of record in the name of the Seller and if the related Investor
consents to the assignment. If the Investor consents to the assignments to
Purchaser, then Seller will prepare, execute and record assignments of
mortgage to Purchaser. Seller will also be responsible for preparing and
delivering to Purchaser assignments of mortgage in blank to the Investor.
Purchaser shall be responsible for executing and delivering

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

30 

the assignment of mortgage in blank to the Investor. With respect to
any Private Investor Loans held of record by an Investor, Seller shall assist
Purchaser in obtaining limited powers of attorney from such Investor for
servicing purposes.

(3) No later than the applicable Transfer Date, other than a Subsequent
Flow Offering Transfer Date, Seller shall prepare and record an assignment to
Purchaser for all FNMA Loans that have not been previously registered with
MERS.

(4) Seller shall be responsible for obtaining and recording any
intervening assignments, at Seller s sole cost and expense.

(b) MERS Registration and Transfers

(1) For all MERS FNMA Loans, the Seller, with the cooperation of
Purchaser, shall cause MERS  records to reflect the transfer of Servicing
Rights to the Purchaser, effective as of the related Transfer Date.

(2) For all Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans that are FNMA Loans
originated in the name of MERS, as nominee for MLCC, Purchaser shall register
such loans with MERS under Purchaser s MERS Mortgage Identification Number so
that MERS  records reflect Purchaser as the servicer on the related FNA Loan.

(c) Costs. (1) Purchaser and Seller shall equally bear the cost of (i) preparing and
recording the Assignments described in Sections 4.13(a)(2) and (3); (ii) the transfer fee incurred
for transfer pursuant to Section 4.13(b)(1); and (iii) the registration fee for registration
pursuant to Section 4.13(b)(2).

(2) Notwithstanding the foregoing, as to any Mortgage Loans as to which MLCC is the Investor,
upon the sale of such Mortgage Loans to another Investor, upon the consent of such Investor, Seller
will (i) prepare, execute and record assignments of mortgage to Purchaser and (ii) will prepare and
deliver assignments of mortgage in blank from Purchaser to the Investor. Purchaser shall execute
and deliver such assignments in blank from Purchaser to the Investor. Purchaser and Seller shall
equally bear the cost of preparing and recording any such assignments of mortgage. If an Investor
directs MLCC to assign any Mortgage Loans to that Investor, MLCC shall bear the cost of preparing
and recording such assignments.

(d)   Post Recording Deliveries  . Recorded Assignments required by this Section 4.13
shall be delivered to Purchaser within twelve months (or in New York, Pennsylvania and Minnesota,
no later than eighteen (18) months, (ii) in the U.S. Virgin Islands, no later than twenty-four (24)
months and (iii) in Puerto Rico, no later than five (5) years) after the related Transfer Date.
Seller shall forward, or cause to be forwarded, recorded Assignments to Purchaser as Seller
receives such Assignments.

31 

Section 4.14.   Schedule of Advances  .

On or before each applicable Adjustment Date, Purchaser shall have received from Seller a
schedule, certified as being true and correct on behalf of Seller by an authorized officer thereof,
setting forth the Advances as of each applicable Transfer Date with respect to the servicing
physically transferred on that date, which schedule shall contain all the information as required
by the Transfer Instructions.

Section 4.15.   Mortgage Files. Set-up Files and Custodial Files  .

(a) With respect to any Mortgage Loan for which the related Servicing Rights are transferred
from Seller to Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement (except a Cendant Mortgage Loan), Seller shall
deliver the Mortgage File to Purchaser within the twelve (12) month period (or, in the case of
Mortgaged Properties in (i) New York, Pennsylvania and Minnesota, the eighteen (18) month period,
(ii) U.S. Virgin Islands, the twenty-four (24) month period and (iii) Puerto Rico, the five (5)
year period) immediately following the related Transfer Date. Seller may deliver any of the
documents contained in the Mortgage File individually. If Seller fails to deliver the entire
Mortgage File for a given Mortgage Loan within the period specified in the second preceding
sentence, Seller shall pay Purchaser a penalty of $   * * *    with respect to that Mortgage Loan for
each month in which Seller fails to deliver such Mortgage File after the end of such period. In no
event shall the aggregate penalty for any Mortgage Loan exceed $   * * *   . If, in connection with
any Mortgage Loan, Seller cannot deliver the related Mortgage or Assignment (if any) with evidence
of recording thereon as provided above, solely because of a delay caused by the public recording
office to which such Mortgage or Assignment has been delivered for recordation, Seller shall
deliver to Purchaser an officer s certificate of Seller stating that such Mortgage and/or
Assignment has been delivered to the appropriate public recording official for recordation. If
such certificate is provided, Seller shall not be subject to the penalty set forth above. Seller
shall promptly deliver to Purchaser such Mortgage and/or Assignment with evidence of recording
indicated thereon upon receipt thereof from the public recording official. Notwithstanding the
above, Seller shall use all reasonable efforts to cause each original Mortgage or Assignment with
evidence of recording thereon to be delivered to Purchaser within the time period set forth above.

(b) Seller shall also act as a document custodian and shall provide copies of any other
Mortgage Loan Documents to Purchaser within two (2) Business Days of request. The procedures for
requesting and delivering such documents are more particularly set forth in the Operations Guide.

(c) As to any Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loan, Seller shall electronically transmit the related
master file information to Purchaser s EDP within six (6) Business Days after the later of (i)
Seller s receipt of the related closing documents from the closing agent and (ii) expiration of the
related Mortgagor s right to rescind. The Set-up File for such Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loan shall
be sent to Purchaser within ten (10) Business Days after the date the master file information is
transmitted to Purchaser s EDP. Seller may include Mortgage File documents with the Set-up File
documents, in which case Seller shall have no further delivery responsibilities with regard to such
Mortgage File documents. Seller may deliver any remaining Mortgage File documents to Purchaser as
received.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

32 

(d) If Purchaser requests delivery to it of an original Mortgage Note from an Investor or
its custodian, as applicable, and the Investor or its custodian does not have the original Mortgage
Note, Purchaser shall contact Seller, and Seller shall work with Purchaser to fulfill the servicing
responsibility that gave rise to Purchaser s request for the original Mortgage Note.

(e) Purchaser shall provide to Seller on a periodic basis reports detailing certain Set-up
Files and Mortgage Files (respectively referred to as  Set-up File Trailing Documents Reports  and
 Mortgage File Trailing Documents Reports ) that do not contain the applicable documentation as
required under this Agreement. A Set-up File Trailing Documents Report shall (i) be provided to
Seller at least weekly, beginning in May 2000, (ii) be arranged by MLCC loan number (in ascending
order), (iii) include each related Mortgagor s last name and (iv) detail each missing document as
of the report date. A Mortgage File Trailing Documents Report shall (i) be provided to Seller no
later than the tenth (10 th ) day of each month beginning in May 2000, (ii) be arranged by
MLCC loan number (in ascending order), (iii) include each related Mortgagor s last name and (iv)
detail each missing document as of the report date.

(f) Seller shall be responsible for completing the delivery of all Mortgage Files, Set-up
Files and other documents within the timeframes required by this Agreement. If, as of the last day
of any calendar month, the number of individual documents (excluding Mortgages and Assignments in
the process of being recorded) that have not been delivered to Purchaser within such timeframes
(the  Undelivered Document Population ) exceeds    * * *    of the total number of individual documents
required to have been delivered by such date pursuant to the Agreement (the  Designated
Population ), Purchaser shall be entitled to institute a holdback of    * * *  of the Subsequent Flow
Offering Purchase Price on purchases of Subsequent Flow Offering Servicing Rights effected after
such date. Any such holdback shall continue until the last day of the calendar month as of which
date the Undelivered Document Population is reduced to less than or equal to    * * *    the Designated
Population as of such date. In connection with these provisions and prior to their becoming
effective, Purchaser and Seller shall jointly develop a mechanism to determine this calculation.
Upon agreement by the parties, the parties shall document the agreed-upon process in the Operations
Guide. In the calendar month following such agreement, Purchaser shall deliver a detailed
calculation to Seller no later than the tenth (10 th ) day of each month, beginning in May
2000.

Section 4.16.   Transfer of Custodial Funds and Related Escrow Funds; Reconciliation  .

(a) (i) On or before each applicable Adjustment Date and subject to Section 4.16(b) herein,
Seller shall wire transfer to Purchaser the applicable agreed-upon Related Escrow Funds and all
other appropriate collections relating to the applicable Mortgage Loans and (ii) on or before each
applicable Payment Date and subject to Section 4.16(b) herein, Seller shall wire transfer to
Purchaser all applicable Custodial Funds.

(b) No later than each applicable Payment Date, Seller shall fully reconcile and resolve on a
loan level basis as of each applicable Transfer Date (i) the reports generated by Seller s EDP with
the balances of the applicable Custodial Funds Accounts, Related Escrow Funds Accounts, and
Advances; (ii) the reports generated by Seller s EDP with Investor s records and reports for the
applicable Servicing Rights; (iii) any Cash Outages (including Pool to security balance
reconciliation and the expected cash reconciliation); and (iv) all outstanding items through

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

33 

and including the applicable Cut-Off Date. Seller shall be responsible for any payments or
adjustments necessary on or before each applicable Transfer Date, to bring such Custodial Funds
Accounts, Related Escrow Funds Accounts, and Advances to full reconciliation, so that all accounts
are fully reconciled, balanced, and whole for the benefit of Purchaser.

Section 4.17.   Assumptions. Payoffs, Loss Drafts, Repair Escrows, and Pending Name
Changes  .

(a)   Documentation  . Seller shall deliver to Purchaser, on or before the applicable
Delivery Date and in accordance with the Transfer Instructions: a list of all applicable Mortgage
Loans with pending assumptions, paid-in-fulls, partial releases, loss drafts, repair escrows, and
pending Mortgagor name changes.

(b)   Assumptions  . With regard to pending assumptions, Seller shall deliver to
Purchaser copies of all applicable assumption statements generated by Seller within the sixty-(60)
days preceding each applicable Transfer Date.

(c  ) Paid-In-Full Mortgage Loans and Partial Releases  .

(i) With regard to pending payoffs, Seller shall (A) apply all payoff checks received
through the Cut-Off Date and (B) as to all payoff checks received after the Cut-Off Date,
within two Business Days after Seller s receipt of any such check, either forward such check
to Purchaser via overnight delivery or wire transfer to Purchaser the amount of such check,
and Seller shall reimburse Purchaser for any additional per diem interest incurred with
respect to the amount of any such check not forwarded or wire-transferred to Purchaser
within such two-Business-Day period. With respect to any payoff check forwarded to
Purchaser in accordance with the preceding sentence, Seller shall endorse such check and
shall provide Purchaser with sufficient information to process such check as required by the
Transfer Instructions. Any outstanding balances resulting from short payoffs and the
preparation of satisfactions/releases with regard to Mortgage Loans that pay in full from
each applicable Sale Date through each applicable Transfer Date shall be the responsibility
of Seller.

(ii) With regard to pending partial releases, Seller shall forward to Purchaser, on or
before the applicable Delivery Date, copies of all correspondence forwarded for approval to
any Investor.

Section 4.18.   Payment of Investor Remittances  .

With respect to each Mortgage Loan serviced for FNMA, after each applicable Transfer Date,
Seller shall make the principal and interest remittance due to FNMA in accordance with the
following: (a) no later than the earlier of (i) each applicable Adjustment Date and (ii) two (2)
Business Days immediately preceding the day the remittance is due, Seller will provide Purchaser
with documentation showing the amount due to FNMA; (b) Purchaser shall verify the amount described
in clause (a); (c) no later than noon, Jacksonville, Florida time, on the Business Day immediately
preceding the day that the remittance is due, Purchaser shall wire transfer the amount of the
remittance to Seller in immediately available funds; and (d) Seller shall pay the remittance to

34 

FNMA no later than the date that the remittance is due. With respect to each Mortgage Loan
serviced for an Investor other than FNMA, after each applicable Transfer Date, Purchaser shall be
responsible for making all Investor remittances in accordance with all Applicable Requirements.

Section 4.19.   Misapplied Payments and NSF  .

All misapplied payments and all payment reversals resulting from the return of checks due to
insufficient funds ( NSF ) shall be processed as follows:

(a) All parties shall cooperate in correcting misapplication errors and NSF;

(b) The party receiving notice of a misapplied payment or NSF occurring before the relevant
Transfer Date and discovered after each applicable Sale Date shall, within two Business Days of
receiving such notice, notify the other party and shall accompany such notification with a copy of
the applicable canceled or returned check or similar supporting documentation (unless the other
party is the party that has access to such documentation);

(c) If a misapplied payment or NSF that occurred before the relevant Transfer Date cannot be
reconciled and results in a shortage in Custodial Funds or Related Escrow Funds, Seller shall
reimburse Purchaser for the amount of such shortage within ten (10) Business Days after Seller s
receipt of Purchaser s demand therefor accompanied by supporting documentation;

(d) If a misapplied payment or NSF that occurred before the relevant Transfer Date has created
an improper Purchase Price as the result of an inaccurate outstanding principal balance, a check
shall be issued to the party shorted by the improper payment application or NSF, within ten (10)
Business Days after written notice thereof by the other party accompanied by supporting
documentation; and

(e) Any check issued pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement indicating
the purpose of the check, the applicable Mortgagor, the Mortgaged Property address and the
corresponding Seller and/or Purchaser account number.

Section 4.20.   Tax Reporting  .

(a) Seller shall be responsible for the preparation and filing of all reports required by the
IRS for any Mortgage Loan that was paid in full prior to the related Transfer Date. For Mortgage
Loans (other than Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans) as to which Servicing Rights are transferred to
Purchaser during the year 2000 and thereafter, Seller shall be responsible for the preparation and
filing of all reports required by the IRS through the related Cut-Off Date, and Purchaser shall be
responsible for the preparation and filing of all reports required by the IRS after the related
Cut-Off Date.

(b) With respect to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans, Purchaser shall be responsible for the
preparation and filing of all reports required by the IRS. At such time as Seller electronically
transmits master file information to Purchaser s EDP, pursuant to the Operations Guide, Seller
shall furnish to Purchaser the applicable tax reporting, including, but not limited to discount
points if the Mortgage Loan was for the purchase of a primary residence.

35 

(c) To the extent Seller has such documents in its possession, Seller shall provide to
Purchaser photocopies of IRS Forms W-8 and W-9, as applicable, executed by the Mortgagor (or
equivalent documentation acceptable to Purchaser) on all Mortgage Loans upon request.

Section 4.21.   Delivery of Tax Bills, Insurance Premiums, Etc  .

For a period of sixty (60) days following each applicable Transfer Date, Seller shall forward
to Purchaser by overnight delivery, within two Business Days following Seller s receipt thereof,
any bill that Seller receives in connection with any Mortgage Loan, including, but not limited to,
tax bills and bills for hazard, flood, earthquake or private mortgage insurance premiums. After
each sixty (60) day period, Seller shall forward such bills to Purchaser by first class mail within
two Business Days following Seller s receipt thereof.

Section 4.22.   Flood Insurance Determination Contracts  .

(a) Seller shall obtain, at Seller s sole cost and expense, before each applicable Transfer
Date,  life of loan  or  life-time  transferable flood insurance determination contracts on each
Mortgage Loan. With respect to all Mortgage Loans other than Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans,
Seller shall assign to Purchaser, on or promptly following each applicable Transfer Date, the
related certified and guaranteed assignable flood insurance determination contracts Seller obtained
for such Mortgage Loans. Seller and Purchaser shall equally share responsibility for any fees
required to transfer such flood insurance determination contracts to Purchaser. On Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loans, Seller shall obtain the life of loan or life-time contract in the name of
Purchaser.

(b) Seller shall continue to utilize its current carrier of coverage under flood insurance
determination contracts during the term of this Agreement except as provided herein. Purchaser
shall give Seller 90 days  prior written notice of Purchaser s desire to change its then-current
carrier of coverage under flood insurance determination contracts. For a period of 30 days after
receiving such notice, Seller shall have the right to reject the new carrier selected by Purchaser,
and Seller shall deliver written notice of any such rejection to Purchaser before the expiration of
such 30-day period. If Seller fails to reject the new carrier selected by Purchaser, Seller shall
be deemed to have agreed to Purchaser s selection. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Purchaser
approves or fails to reject the new carrier, then Seller shall, within such ninety (90) day notice
period, negotiate in good faith (i) an agreement with the new carrier and (ii) an agreement with
Purchaser covering the procedures for implementing the change, including but not limited to the
allocation between Purchaser and Seller of the costs (including but not limited to termination
fees) of implementing the change. If Seller fails to reach an agreement with the new carrier or
with Purchaser within such ninety (90) day period, Purchaser and Seller shall each continue to use
the then-current carrier.

Section 4.23.   Seller s Limited Powers of Attorney and Limited Signature Authority  .

Seller agrees to provide Purchaser on the Bulk Offering Transfer Date with limited powers of
attorney in the agreed upon forms attached hereto as Exhibit G-1, and Exhibit G-2. Seller shall
appoint a limited number of assistant vice presidents (or more senior officers) of Purchaser, who
are also  department heads  of Purchaser, as  Limited Authorized Signatories 
of Seller as set forth in Seller s corporate resolution.

36 

Section 4.24.   Updated Exhibits and Schedules  .

As soon as possible, and in any event no later than the applicable Delivery Date, Purchaser
shall have received from Seller updated versions of each then-relevant exhibit and schedule hereto,
certified as being true and correct on behalf of Seller by an authorized officer thereof, with
respect to the Servicing Rights transferred on that date.

Section 4.25.   Outsource Vendor Contracts  .

Purchaser shall not assume any of Seller s obligations under the Outsource Vendor contracts.
A list of the Outsource Vendors is attached as Schedule 4.26.

Section 4.26.   Bi-Saver Loans  .

Purchaser agrees to incur any and all expenses associated with the transfer of bi-weekly
payment program Mortgage Loans to Purchaser s EDP. Seller agrees not to cancel any bi-weekly
payment program agreements. Seller also agrees to provide Purchaser with all reasonable assistance
necessary to transfer the bi-weekly payment program Mortgage Loans to Purchaser s EDP. Seller
agrees that the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans shall not include any bi-weekly payment program
Mortgage Loans without Purchaser s prior written consent.

Section 4.27.   Conversion Data  .

(a) Deliveries. Seller shall deliver to Purchaser, or Purchaser s designee, at Seller s sole
cost, Seller s master mortgage servicing data, in a form acceptable to Purchaser, and in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the Transfer Instructions.

(b) Corrections. Before delivering to Purchaser, or Purchaser s designee, any scheduled
conversion data, Seller shall use its best efforts to correct, at Seller s sole cost, any
information that Seller or Purchaser has identified as incorrect or defective.

(c) Seller and Purchaser shall equally share the costs of effecting any full-file-conversion
transfer.

Section 4.28.   Transfer Instructions  .

Seller and Purchaser shall comply in all material respects with the Transfer Instructions.

Section 4.29.   Seller to Service Additional Collateral  .

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Seller shall service and
administer all Additional Collateral, it being understood and agreed that only Seller shall service
and administer the related securities accounts, lines of credit, Equity Access    Mortgages, and
guarantees with respect to Additional Collateral Agreements.

37 

Section 4.30.   Commencement of Lawsuits  .

Purchaser shall commence no lawsuit (including but not limited to, collection, bankruptcy,
foreclosure, or eviction proceedings relating to any Mortgage Loan) in Seller s name without
Seller s prior consent. Except to the extent otherwise provided in Article X, Seller shall have
the right to control any such Seller-permitted lawsuit after it is commenced in Seller s name.

Section 4.31.   Converted Loans: Balloon Loans  .

(a) With respect to any Mortgage Loan that Purchaser is required to repurchase from an
Investor pursuant to the related Investor Agreement because the related interest rate has converted
from an adjustable to a fixed rate (or from an adjustable rate based on one index to an adjustable
rate based on a different index) pursuant to the terms of the related Mortgage Note, Purchaser
shall, upon such repurchase, use its best efforts (in cooperation with Seller) to sell such
Mortgage Loan in the secondary market.

           (b) If Purchaser is unable to sell such Mortgage Loan within
60 days after the date on which it repurchases such Mortgage Loan, then, no later than 90 days
after the date of such repurchase, Seller shall purchase such Mortgage Loan from Purchaser at a
purchase price equal to the sum of (i) the repurchase price paid by Purchaser and (ii) any accrued
but unpaid interest through the date of repurchase by Seller.

(c) If (i) Purchaser sells such Mortgage Loan at a price less than the repurchase price and
(ii) Seller had provided its written consent to such sale, Seller shall reimburse Purchaser the
difference between the repurchase price and the sale price.

(d) With respect to any Mortgage Loan that is a conforming balloon loan and as to which the
related Mortgage Note contains provisions giving the related Mortgagor a conditional right to
refinance, any repurchase required to be made from an Investor pursuant to the related Investor
Agreement shall be the sole responsibility of Purchaser.

(e) All Mortgage Loans repurchased in accordance with the above provisions of this Section
4.31 shall remain subject to the Transaction Agreements.

Section 4.32.   Audit of ARM Loans  .

Within ninety (90) days after the Bulk Offering Transfer Date and the Initial Flow Offering
Transfer Date, Purchaser may perform an audit of a sample of   * * *   of the ARM Loans transferred
on such Transfer Date, comparing the Mortgage Note with Purchaser s EDP. Each such audit shall be
based on a random sample, the selection methodology for which shall be approved by Seller
reasonably in advance of such data audit. At least two (2) Business Days before the commencement
of any such data audit, Purchaser shall provide Seller with a list of the loan numbers selected for
such data audit. Should the results of such audit reflect a financial error rate    * * *    or a
non-financial error rate    * * *   , subject to Seller s reasonable verification of Purchaser s audit
results, Purchaser, or Purchaser s subcontractor, shall complete, at Seller s sole cost and
expense, an audit of all ARM Loans and

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS
AMENDED.

38 

related interest adjustments and calculations. Purchaser and Seller shall mutually agree on
the scope, the procedures to be used, and (subject to reasonability) the price of conducting such
ARM Loan audit. Purchaser shall report the results of such ARM Loan audit including all
recommended corrective actions to Seller. Seller shall reimburse Purchaser immediately upon
receipt of related invoices for all costs and expenses incurred by Purchaser in undertaking the
audit. Purchaser and Seller shall jointly agree on any corrective action to be undertaken, the
costs of which shall be borne exclusively by Seller. Any decision by Purchaser not to conduct an
audit as provided herein shall not affect any rights Purchaser may have under this Agreement, nor
in any way limit any of Seller s representations or warranties.

Section 4.33.   License to Service Mortgage Loans in Puerto Rico and Guam  .

Within 30 days after the date hereof, Purchaser shall submit such applications as may be
required to become licensed to service mortgage loans or qualified to do business in, or as
otherwise may be required by, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Territory of Guam.

Section 4.34.   Correspondent Loans  .

Unless it obtains Purchaser s prior written consent, Seller shall not transfer to Purchaser
the Servicing Rights with respect to any correspondent loans acquired by Seller in bulk from a
third party.

Section 4.35.   Training  .

No later than March 3, 2000, Seller and Purchaser shall have completed a training program for
Purchaser s employees in the proper servicing of Seller s interest-only ARM Loans. To assist
Seller in conducting such training, Purchaser shall provide Seller reasonable access to Purchaser s
facilities, employees and EDP and, if reasonably deemed appropriate by Seller, shall send
Purchaser s employees to Seller s offices in Jacksonville, Florida to attend that portion, if any,
of such training conducted at such offices. Seller and Purchaser shall bear their own costs and
expenses, including but not limited to salaries, travel, subsistence and other related expenses
when visiting the other party for training. The party being visited shall, at its expense, make
available all customary, reasonable training facilities and equipment for the visiting party.
Seller shall provide the trainer and training materials.

39 

ARTICLE V.  
  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF SELLER  

The representations and warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement shall continue and
survive each applicable purchase of the Servicing Rights and each applicable delivery and
assignment to Purchaser of such Servicing Rights and shall inure to the benefit of Purchaser for a
period of seven (7) years following each applicable Sale Date. The seven (7) year limitation,
however, shall not apply in the event of Seller s willful misconduct. Purchaser is purchasing the
Servicing Rights in reliance on the truth and accuracy of each such representation and warranty.
In addition to representations and warranties, if any, made elsewhere in this Agreement, Seller
represents and warrants to Purchaser, as of each applicable Sale Date, and on each applicable
Transfer Date, except to the extent that a different date is specified in a particular
representation or warranty, as follows and except that no such representations or and warranty
shall relate to any Servicing Rights other than those being conveyed on each such Sale Date or
Transfer Date:

Section 5.01.   Organization and Good Standing  .

Seller is a corporation duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the laws
of the State of Delaware. Seller has in full force and effect (without notice of possible
suspension, revocation or impairment) all required qualifications, permits, approvals, licenses,
and registrations, or exemptions therefrom, to conduct all activities in all states in which its
activities with respect to the Mortgage Loans or the Servicing Rights require it to be qualified or
licensed.

Section 5.02.   Authority and Capacity; Ordinary Course  .

Seller has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to carry on its business as
it is now being conducted, to execute and deliver the Transaction Agreements, and to perform all of
its obligations thereunder. Seller does not believe, nor does it have any cause or reason to
believe, that it cannot perform each and every covenant contained in the Transaction Agreements.

Section 5.03.   Effective Agreement  .

The execution, delivery, and performance of the Transaction Agreements by Seller and
consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary corporate, shareholder, or other action by Seller; the Transaction Agreements have been
or will be duly and validly executed and delivered by Seller, and the Transaction Agreements are
valid and legally binding agreements of Seller, enforceable against Seller in accordance with their
respective terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting generally the
enforcement of creditors  rights and the discretion of a court to grant specific performance of
contracts.

Section 5.04.   No Conflict  .

Neither the execution and delivery of the Transaction Agreements, nor the consummation of the
transactions contemplated thereby, nor compliance with their respective terms and conditions shall:
(a) violate, conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a default under, be

40 

prohibited by, or require any additional approval under any terms, conditions, or provisions of
Seller s Certificate of Incorporation or by-laws, or any other similar corporate or organizational
documents of Seller; any mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, or other
agreement or instrument to which Seller is now a party or by which it is bound with the exception
of any agreement or instrument relating to a Third Party Consent; or any law, ordinance, rule,
regulation, order, judgment or decree of any governmental authority applicable to Seller; or (b)
result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance of any material nature upon
any of the properties or assets of Seller (except in favor of Purchaser).

Section 5.05.   Approvals and Compliance  .

Seller is approved and in good standing with each Investor and Insurer, and holds all
licenses, approvals, permits, and other authorizations, or exemptions therefrom, required under
Applicable Requirements to originate, if Seller was the Originator, and to service the Mortgage
Loans. Seller is not in default with respect to Seller s obligations under the Investor
Agreements, and Seller is in compliance in all material respects with all Applicable Requirements
relating to the Mortgage Loans and/or Servicing Rights except as otherwise set forth herein. There
has been no occurrence that could likely entitle any Investor or Insurer, whichever is applicable,
to demand repurchase of a Mortgage Loan, terminate any Investor Agreement, demand indemnification
for losses or cause the cancellation of the mortgage insurance or guaranty, or the denial or
reduction of insurance benefits, provided by the Insurers with respect to any Mortgage Loan.

Section 5.06.   Filing of Reports  .

Seller has timely filed all reports required by the Investors and Insurers with respect to the
Mortgage Loans and/or the Servicing Rights, and Seller has complied in all material respects with
all federal, state and municipal laws, regulations, and ordinances affecting the Mortgage Loans and
the Servicing Rights. Seller has timely filed all IRS Forms, including, but not limited to, IRS
Forms 1041 K1, 1041, 1099 INT, 1099 MISC, 1099A and 1098, as appropriate, which are required to be
filed with respect to the Servicing Rights.

Section 5.07.   Custodial Funds and Related Escrow Funds  .

All Custodial Funds Accounts and Related Escrow Funds Accounts required to be maintained by
Seller to hold Custodial Funds and Related Escrow Funds have been established and continuously
maintained in accordance with Applicable Requirements. All Custodial Funds and Related Escrow
Funds balances required by the Mortgage Loan Documents and/or Applicable Requirements, which
amounts have been paid to Seller for the account of the Mortgagors under the Mortgage Loans, are on
deposit in the appropriate Custodial Funds Accounts and Related Escrow Funds Accounts. To the
extent required by Applicable Requirements, and in accordance therewith, Seller has analyzed the
payments required to be deposited into the Custodial Funds Accounts and Related Escrow Funds
Accounts and has adjusted, or by the related Transfer Date will adjust, the payment thereto in
order to eliminate any shortage or deficiency Seller may have discovered.

41 

Section 5.08.    Advances   . 

The Advances are valid and subsisting amounts owing to Seller, are carried on the books of
Seller at values determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are not
subject to any set-offs or claims by the Mortgagor arising from acts or omissions of Seller, and
are recoverable in the normal course of business or are made in accordance with Applicable
Requirements.

Section 5.09.    The Mortgage Loans   . 

(a)   Investor/Insurer Requirements  . Each Mortgage Loan materially conforms to the
Guide, if any, of the applicable Investor and Insurer. Each Mortgage Loan was eligible for sale to
the applicable Investor and/or to be insured by the applicable Insurer. No waivers with respect to
any published Investor requirements have been obtained that would have a material adverse affect on
any of the Servicing Rights or the servicing of any of the Mortgage Loans. Each of the Investor
Agreements has been provided to Purchaser (except for Guides promulgated by FNMA, Residential
Funding Corporation, IndyMac, Inc., GE Capital Mortgage Services, Inc. and PNC Mortgage Securities
Corp.), and each Investor Agreement is in full force and effect and has not been amended, modified,
or altered in any manner relating to the servicing of the Mortgage Loans, except as the same shall
have been provided to Purchaser. Seller is not a party to or subject to any agreement, stipulation,
conditional approval, memorandum of understanding, notice of determination, consent decree,
advisory settlement, compromise, litigation, or other agreement or understanding with any Investor,
court, or other governmental agency or body that seeks to modify, interpret or clarify or has the
effect of modifying, interpreting, or clarifying any of the terms of the Investor Agreements as
they relate to the servicing of the Mortgage Loans or otherwise affects Seller s servicing
obligations and practices (including, but not limited to, Seller s escrow practices), except as the
same shall have been provided to Purchaser. In connection with each Mortgage Loan, to Seller s
knowledge, there does not exist any circumstance or condition with respect to the related Mortgage
Instrument, Mortgaged Property, Mortgagor or Mortgagor s credit standing that can be reasonably
expected to adversely affect the value or marketability of the Servicing Rights.

(b)   Enforceability of Mortgage Loan  . The Mortgage Note and the related Mortgage
Instrument are genuine and each is the legal, valid, and binding obligation of the maker thereof,
enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, and similar laws
affecting generally the enforcement of creditors  rights and the discretion of a court to grant
specific performance of contracts. All parties to the Mortgage Note and the Mortgage Instrument
had the legal capacity to execute the Mortgage Note and the Mortgage Instrument, and each Mortgage
Note and Mortgage Instrument has been duly and properly executed by such parties. Each Mortgage
Loan is not subject to any right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense, including the
defense of usury, nor will the operation of any of the terms of the Mortgage Note or the Mortgage
Instrument, or the exercise of any right thereunder, render either the Mortgage Note or the
Mortgage Instrument unenforceable, in whole or in part, or subject to any right of rescission,
set-off, counterclaim, or defense, including the defense of usury, and no such right of
rescission, set-off, counterclaim, or defense has been asserted with respect thereto. Except as
may be permitted by Applicable Requirements, there is no homestead or other exemption available to
a Mortgagor that would interfere with the right to sell the Mortgaged Property through
foreclosure.

42 

(c)   Disbursement  . The full original principal amount of each Mortgage Loan (net of
any discounts) has been fully advanced or disbursed to the Mortgagor named therein; there is no
requirement for future advances; and any and all requirements as to completion of any on-site or
off-site improvements and to disbursements of any escrow funds therefor have been satisfied. All
costs, fees, and expenses incurred in making, closing, or recording the Mortgage Loan were paid or
will be paid. There is no obligation on the part of Seller, or of any other party, to make
supplemental payments in addition to those made by the Mortgagor. The Mortgagor is not entitled to
any refund of any amounts paid or due under the Mortgage Note or Mortgage Instrument except for
refunds from Related Escrow Funds not yet required to be paid by Applicable Requirements.

(d)   Priority of Lien; Title Insurance; Etc  . (i) Each Mortgage Instrument has been
duly acknowledged and recorded and is a valid and subsisting first lien in the Mortgaged Property
(provided that with respect to each Co-op Loan, the Mortgage Instrument is a valid and subsisting
first perfected security interest in the stock in the residential housing corporation and the Co-op
Lease that were pledged to secure such Co-op Loan) and each Mortgaged Property (or, with respect to
a Co-op Loan, the stock in the residential housing corporation and the Co-op Lease that were
pledged to secure such Co-op Loan) is free and clear of all encumbrances and liens having priority
over the lien of the Mortgage Instrument, except for (A) liens for real estate taxes and special
assessments not yet due and payable; (B) covenants, conditions, restrictions, rights of way,
easements, and other matters of public record acceptable to mortgage lending institutions
generally; (C) other matters to which like properties are commonly subject that do not materially
interfere with the benefits of the security intended to be provided by the Mortgage Instrument or
the use, enjoyment, value, or marketability of the related Mortgaged Property; and (D) in the case
of a Co-op Loan, (1) the lien of the Co-op corporation for unpaid maintenance fees; (2) any
mortgage or security instrument creating a lien on the Co-op property, and (3) the rights of the
Co-op corporation under the proprietary lease, recognition agreements, by-laws, rules and
regulations. There are no mechanics  or similar liens or claims that have been filed for work,
labor, or material (and no rights are outstanding that under law could give rise to such lien)
affecting the Mortgaged Property, which are or may be liens before, or equal or coordinate with,
the lien of the Mortgage Instrument.

(ii) With respect to each Mortgage Loan that is not a Co-op Loan, a valid and enforceable
title insurance policy, or other appropriate evidence of title in a form generally acceptable to
FNMA, has been issued and is in full force and effect in an amount not less than the original
principal amount of such Mortgage Loan, which title policy insures that the related Mortgage
Instrument is a valid first lien on the Mortgaged Property therein described and that the Mortgaged
Property is free and clear of all encumbrances and liens having priority over the lien of the
Mortgage, subject, to the exceptions set forth in Section 5.09(d)(i) hereof, and otherwise in
compliance with the requirements of the applicable Investor or Insurer. No claims (other than
claims relating to tax liens that are insured against by such policy) are pending under such policy
and neither Seller, nor, to Seller s knowledge, any other prior holder of the Mortgage Loan, has
done, by act or omission, anything that would impair the coverage of such policy.

(iii) To Seller s knowledge, with respect to each Mortgage Loan, all tax identifications and
property descriptions are legally sufficient, and (A) tax segregation, where required, has been
completed or (B) if not completed, Seller will have furnished notices thereof to Purchaser prior to
the applicable Transfer Date (other than a Subsequent Flow Offering Transfer Date). Any failure of
Seller, any Originator or any Prior Servicer to have recorded intervening

43 

Assignments of the Mortgage Instrument will not subject Purchaser to any liabilities or costs.

(e)   No Default/No Waiver  . Except as to Mortgage Loans that are one or more payments
past due, as set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule, to Seller s knowledge, there is no default,
breach, violation or event of acceleration existing under any Mortgage Loan, and, to Seller s
knowledge, no vent has occurred that, with the passage of time or with notice and the expiration of
any grace or cure period, would constitute a default, breach, violation or event of acceleration;
and Seller has not waived, without the prior written consent of the applicable Investor, any
default, breach, violation or event of acceleration under any Mortgage Loan. The terms of the
Mortgage Loan have in no way been waived, impaired, changed or modified, except by written
instrument that (x) has been recorded, if required by Applicable Requirements, and (y) is held in
the mortgage loan files and acceptable to the applicable Investor and Insurer. No Mortgagor has
been released, in whole or in part, from the terms of the related Mortgage except in connection
with an assumption agreement that is (x) acceptable to the applicable Investor and Insurer and (y)
held in the mortgage loan files. Seller has not advanced its funds to cure a default or
delinquency with respect to any such Mortgage Loan, except for escrowed items the terms of which
are reflected in the Mortgage Loan Schedule.

(f)   Application of Funds  . All payments received by Seller with respect to any
Mortgage Loans have been remitted and properly accounted for as required by Applicable
Requirements. All funds received by Seller in connection with the satisfaction of any Mortgage
Loans, including but not limited to foreclosure proceeds and insurance proceeds from hazard losses,
have been deposited in the appropriate Custodial Funds Accounts or Related Escrow Funds Accounts,
and all such funds have been applied to reduce the outstanding principal balance of the applicable
Mortgage Loan, or for reimbursement of repairs to the Mortgaged Property or as otherwise required
by Applicable Requirements and the Investor Agreements or are and will be in one of the Custodial
Funds Accounts or Related Escrow Funds Accounts on each applicable Transfer Date. All taxes,
governmental assessments, insurance premiums, water, sewer and municipal charges, leasehold
payments, or ground rents that previously became due and owing have been paid by Seller (to the
extent Seller maintains a Related Escrow Funds Account with respect thereto) before the imposition
of any penalty with respect thereto (or if a penalty has been imposed, either the Mortgagor or
Seller has paid such penalty). The unpaid balances of the Mortgage Loans are as stated on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule.

(g)   Mortgage Insurance  . Any Mortgage Loan with mortgage insurance is insured as to
payment defaults by a PMI Policy in the amount required by the Originator s underwriting guidelines
at the time of origination. All provisions of any such PMI Policy have been and are being complied
with, such PMI Policy is in full force and effect, and all premiums due thereunder have been paid.
There are no defenses, counterclaims, or rights of set-off affecting the validity or enforceability
of any PMI Policy covering a Mortgage Loan. Any Mortgage Loan subject to a PMI Policy obligates
the Mortgagor thereunder to pay all premiums and charges required by the mortgagee to maintain such
policy. The interest rate on the Mortgage Loan is net of any such insurance premium.

(h)   Compliance with Laws  . Seller, the Originator and any Prior Servicer have complied
and, for so long as, and to the extent that, Seller owns the Servicing Rights, Seller will continue
to comply, with applicable federal, state, or local, law, statute, and ordinance, and any rule,

  44 

regulation, or order issued thereunder, pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement,
including, but not limited to, usury, RESPA, Consumer Credit Reporting Act, Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, Regulation B, Fair Credit
Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Housing Act, Truth in Lending Act and
Regulation Z, Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, and any applicable regulations related
thereto, and such other fair housing, anti-redlining, equal credit opportunity, truth-in-lending,
real estate settlement procedures, fair credit reporting, and every other prohibition against
unlawful discrimination in residential mortgage lending or governing consumer credit, and all state
consumer credit statutes and regulations, as amended. Each Originator was qualified to do business
and had all requisite licenses, permits, approvals, or exemptions therefrom, in the states in which
the applicable Mortgaged Properties are located as well as the states in which the Mortgage Notes
and Mortgage Instruments were executed.

(i)   Taxes  . Where applicable, all taxes, governmental assessments, insurance premiums,
water, sewer and municipal charges, leasehold payments, and ground rents relating to the Mortgage
Loans have been paid by Seller as required pursuant to Applicable Requirements, and there was no
delinquent tax or delinquent assessment that has gained priority over the lien of the Mortgage
against the Mortgaged Property either at the time of origination or on the Transfer Date; provided,
however, that for Mortgage Loans for which no Related Escrow Funds are held, Seller has afforded
the Mortgagor additional time in excess of that permitted by Investor requirements to pay taxes.
Each Mortgage Loan is covered by a valid and assignable, full fee,  life-of-loan  or  life-time 
tax service contract, for which a fee was paid at origination or conversion (except for (A)
Mortgage Loans the Mortgaged Properties with respect to which are located in Guam or Puerto Rico
and (B) Co-op Loans), and each such contract is in full force and effect. Other than the
Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans, Seller s EDP system is accurately populated with all tax contract
data required by Purchaser to prudently service the Mortgage Loan and such is transferable to
Purchaser in the ordinary course of a tape-to-tape transfer.

(j)   Insurance  . All Mortgaged Properties are currently insured against loss by fire,
hazard, earthquake or extended coverage insurance policies in an amount equal to at least the
lesser of (i) 100% of the insurable value of the improvements as established by the property
insurer, or (ii) the unpaid principal balance of the applicable Mortgage Loan, as long as it equals
at least 80% of the insurable value of the improvements required to compensate for damage or loss
on a replacement cost basis. If required by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 or any
applicable regulations related thereto, as amended, each such property is covered by a flood
insurance policy in an amount not less than the least of (i) the outstanding principal balance of
the applicable Mortgage .Loan, (ii) the maximum amount of insurance that is available under such
Act and/or any applicable regulations and (iii) the related insurable value of the improvements as
established by the property insurer. All such insurance policies are in full force and effect
(other than forced place insurance policies canceled by Seller at Purchaser s request), and all
premiums with respect to such policies have been paid and will inure to the benefit of Purchaser on
behalf of the Investor upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
The Mortgage Instruments obligate the Mortgagors thereunder to maintain such insurance policies at
the Mortgagor s cost and expense, and on the Mortgagor s failure to do so, authorize the holder of
the Mortgage Instruments to obtain and maintain such insurance at such Mortgagor s cost and
expense, and to seek reimbursement therefor from the Mortgagor. Seller has not engaged in any act
or omission that

  45 

would impair the coverage of any such policy, the benefits of any endorsements provided for
therein, or the validity and binding effect of either.

(k)   Damage, Condemnation  . As of the date the Mortgage Loan was originated, there
existed no physical damage to the Mortgaged Property from fire, flood, windstorm, earthquake,
tornado, hurricane or any other similar casualty, which physical damage would cause any Mortgage
Loan Payment not to be received by Seller before the end of the month during which such Mortgage
Loan Payment was due or that would materially and adversely affect the value or marketability of
any Mortgage Loan, the Servicing Rights or the Mortgaged Property or the eligibility of the
Mortgage Loan for insurance benefits, or the amount of insurance benefits, provided by any Insurer.
To Seller s knowledge, there is no proceeding pending for the total or partial condemnation of, or
eminent domain with respect to, the Mortgaged Property; and as of the date the Mortgage Loan was
originated, no part of the Mortgaged Property had been condemned.

(l)   Pools  . To the extent required by Applicable Requirements, all Pools relating to
the Mortgage Loans have been certified, and/or recertified in accordance with Applicable
Requirements. Each Mortgage Loan included in a Pool meets all of FNMA s eligibility requirements
for inclusion in the Pool except where FNMA has agreed otherwise. No Mortgage Loan has been bought
out of a Pool by Seller without all required prior written approvals of FNMA. There are no
outstanding requests from FNMA for the repurchase by Seller of any Mortgage Loan. To the extent
required by Seller s contractual arrangements with FNMA, Seller has filed or will file all reports
and information required to be filed with the appropriate taxing authorities relating to each Pool
from the inception of each Pool to each applicable Transfer Date.

(m)   Good Title  . Subject to the receipt of Third Party Consents as required by Section
7.01, each applicable sale, transfer and assignment by Seller to Purchaser of the Servicing Rights,
and the instruments required to be executed by Seller and delivered to Purchaser pursuant to the
Applicable Requirements, are, or will be on each applicable Sale Date, valid and enforceable in
accordance with their terms and will effectively vest in Purchaser good and marketable title to the
Servicing Rights, free and clear of any and all liens, claims, or encumbrances, except for those
encumbrances required by the Applicable Requirements. Seller has not previously assigned,
transferred, or encumbered the Servicing Rights. There are no contracts affecting the Mortgage
Loans or the Servicing Rights to which Purchaser may be bound except for the Investor Agreements,
tax service contracts and flood service contracts, and no other party has any interest in the
Mortgage Loans or the Servicing Rights except as required or permitted under the Applicable
Requirements.

(n)   Origination, Sale and Servicing Practices  . The origination, sale, and servicing
practices used by Seller, any Originator, and/or to Seller s knowledge, any Prior Servicer with
respect to each Mortgage Loan have been legal, proper, prudent, and customary in the mortgage
lending business and in conformance with the Applicable Requirements, except where a deviation from
the foregoing would not have a material adverse effect on the Servicing Rights or result in any
Loss to the Purchaser. To Seller s knowledge, there are no deficiencies in any Related Escrow
Funds for which customary arrangements for repayment have not been made, and no Related Escrow
Funds deposits or payments or other charges or prepayments due from a Mortgagor have been
capitalized under any Mortgage or the related Mortgage Note. All required adjustments for

  46 

ARM Loans have been timely and properly made by Seller (and, to Seller s knowledge, by all Prior
Servicers) in accordance with the Mortgage Loan Documents and Applicable Requirements.

(o)   Hazardous Material  . Neither Seller, nor, to Seller s knowledge, any Prior
Servicer, has been notified of the presence, release, threatened release, discharge, spillage or
migration of any hazardous materials on the Mortgaged Property in violation of Applicable
Requirements.

(p)   Improvements  . As of the date the Mortgage Loan was originated: (i) no
improvements located on or constituting part of the Mortgaged Property were in violation of any
applicable zoning law or regulation, and Seller had received no notices of any violation of any
law, municipal or other governmental ordinance, order, rule, regulation or requirement that had not
been cured, or any restrictive covenant against or affecting the Mortgaged Property, or any part
thereof, nor did Seller have any knowledge of any circumstance that might result in such a
violation; and (ii) no buildings or other improvements with respect to a Mortgaged Property
(including the parking areas) in any way encroached on any adjoining property, unless affirmative
insurance coverage has been provided by the title policy Insurer or such encroachments are of the
type generally acceptable to mortgage lender. To the extent that water supply, storm and sanitary
sewage disposal systems and other utilities and municipal services are required by Applicable
Requirements at or on the Mortgaged Property, Seller is not aware that any such systems or services
are not currently in existence at or on the Mortgaged Property, or that such systems or services
have not been completed, installed and paid for or that they are not sufficient to service the
occupancy, operation and use of the Mortgaged Property, or that any utility lines servicing the
Mortgaged Property are located other than in the public right of way or within recorded easements.

(q)   Appraisals; Loan-to-value Ratio  . At the time of origination, the actual
loan-to-value ratio of each Mortgage Loan did not exceed the maximum amount permitted by the
applicable Investor and/or Insurer for such Mortgage Loan and no action has been taken to increase
the loan-to-value ratio beyond the maximum permissible amount. To Seller s knowledge, as of the
date the Mortgage Loan was originated, the appraisal prepared in connection with each Mortgaged
Property provided an accurate estimate of bona fide market value of the Mortgaged Property at the
time of origination. Such appraisal was prepared by a qualified appraiser with no direct or
indirect interest in the Mortgaged Property.

(r)   Consolidation of Future Advances  . No future advances have been made with respect
to any Mortgage Loan.

(s)   Conformance with Underwriting Standards  . Except to the extent a waiver has been
granted by the applicable Investor, (i) each FNMA Loan was materially underwritten and funded in
accordance with FNMA s underwriting standards in effect at the time such FNMA Loan was originated,
(ii) each Mortgage Loan other than a FNMA Loan was materially underwritten and funded in accordance
with Seller s underwriting standards in effect at the time the Mortgage Loan was originated, (iii)
the related Mortgage Loan Documents are on forms acceptable under the applicable Investor
Agreement.

(t)   Limitations on Mortgage Loan Characteristics  . The characteristics of the Mortgage
Loans are equivalent, in all material respects, to the characteristics of the mortgage loans

  47 

described in the Offering Memorandum (except, with respect to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans
and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, as disclosed in writing by Seller and otherwise agreed to by
Purchaser). Except as expressly set forth in the Mortgage Loan Schedule, none of the Mortgage
Loans (i) are secured by a mobile home that is not affixed to the related improved real property;
(ii) contain provisions for participation features; (iii) are graduated payment mortgages, or (iv)
have shared appreciation or contingent interest features. Except as set forth in Exhibit A, none
of the Mortgage Loans have an interest rate Buydown or other interest rate subsidies, wherein
Mortgage Loan Payments are paid or partially paid with funds deposited in a separate account
established by Seller, the Mortgagor, or anyone on behalf of the Mortgagor, or paid by any source
other than the Mortgagor. The Related Escrow Account associated with any Mortgage Loan that
provides for an interest rate Buydown has been properly established and is fully funded, and all
amounts therein can be transferred to Purchaser in accordance with this Agreement. None of the
Mortgage Loans are subject to bi-weekly payment plans, and the due date for each Mortgage Loan
Payment is the first day of each calendar month. Interest on each Mortgage Loan is payable in
arrears.

(u)   Mortgage Loans as Described  . The information set forth in the related Mortgage
Loan Schedule is complete, true and correct in all material respects.

(v)   Coinsurance Claims  . To Seller s knowledge, there are no uninsured casualty losses
or casualty losses where coinsurance has been (and Seller has no reason to believe, will be)
claimed by an Insurer or where the loss, exclusive of contents, is greater than the recovery, less
actual expenses incurred in such recovery from the insurance carrier. All damage with respect to
which casualty insurance proceeds have been received by Seller, in cases where a Mortgaged Property
has suffered material damage, has been properly repaired or is in the process of repair with such
proceeds.

(w)   No Satisfaction of Mortgage  . No Mortgage Instrument has been satisfied, canceled,
subordinated, or rescinded, in whole or in part, nor has any Mortgaged Property been released from
the lien of the Mortgage Instrument, in whole or in part, except in cases where the original
Loan-to-Value Ratio would not be adversely affected; nor has any instrument been executed that
would effect any such release, cancellation, subordination, or rescission.

(x)   Doing Business  . Except as disclosed to Purchaser, all parties (other than
Investors) that have had any interest in the Mortgage Loan, whether as mortgagee, assignee,
pledgee, or otherwise, are (or, during the period in which they held and disposed of such interest,
were) (i) in compliance, in all material respects, with any and all applicable licensing
requirements of the laws of the state wherein the Mortgaged Property is located; (ii) organized
under the laws of such state or qualified to do business in such state; (iii) federal savings and
loan associations or national banks having principal offices in such state; or (iv) not doing
business in such state, except where the failure to be so licensed or qualified would not result in
any Loss to Purchaser.

(y)   No Indemnification/Repurchase Obligation  . With respect to any Mortgage Loan other
than a FNMA Loan, Purchaser shall not be required under the applicable Investor Agreement or any
other Applicable Requirement to (i) indemnify the Investor or any other party, or repurchase any
Mortgage Loan, for any act, error or omission of Seller, any Originator or any Prior Servicer that
occurred prior to the applicable Transfer Date or (ii) indemnify the Investor or any other party,

  48 

or repurchase any Mortgage Loan; as a result of any other event that occurred prior to the
applicable Transfer Date.

(z)   No Additional Collateral  . Except for the Additional Collateral Mortgage Loans,
the Mortgage Note is not and has not been secured by any collateral except the lien of the
corresponding Mortgage Instrument and the security interest of any applicable security agreement or
chattel mortgage.

(aa)   Deeds of Trust  . In the event the Mortgage Instrument constitutes a deed of
trust, a trustee, duly qualified under applicable law to serve as such, has been properly
designated, currently so serves and is named in the Mortgage Instrument, except to the extent that
any improper qualification would not have a material adverse impact on the enforceability of the
affected Mortgage Loan, and no fees or expenses are or will become payable by Purchaser, the
applicable Investor, or their respective successors or assigns to the trustee under the deed of
trust, except in connection with a trustee s sale or attempted sale after default by the Mortgagor
and except that fees may be paid to the trustee to execute a satisfaction upon payoff.

(bb)   No Criminal Offenses  . To Seller s knowledge, no current officer (or other
currently employed personnel of Seller) or current mortgage loan originator has been indicted,
arraigned, or convicted, or currently is (or has been in 12 months before each applicable Sale
Date) under investigation for any criminal offense or any fraudulent activity related to the
origination, servicing or sale of any mortgage loans.

(cc)   Condominiums, Planned Unit Developments and Cooperative Units  . If the Mortgaged
Property is a condominium securing a FNMA Loan, such condominium has and had all necessary project
acceptances, and the loan otherwise meets and met any and all other special requirements under
Applicable Requirements. For Mortgage Loans other than FNMA Loans, Seller has obtained project
acceptances for condominiums, planned unit developments or cooperative units when required to do so
by applicable Investor Agreements.

(dd)   No Inquiries  . Seller has not received an audit finding within the past three
years by an Investor or Insurer, which audit included allegations of failure to comply with
applicable loan origination, servicing or claims procedures, and which resulted in a request for
repurchase of mortgage loans or indemnification in connection with any mortgage loans (including,
but not limited to, the Mortgage Loans).

(ee)   Notice of Relief Requested Pursuant to the Soldiers and Sailors Civil Relief Act of
1940  .   Schedule 5.09(ee)   hereto identifies all Mortgage Loans with respect to which,
the related Mortgagors are obtaining relief pursuant to the Soldiers and Sailors Civil Relief Act
of 1940.

(ff)   Co-op Loans  . In addition to the representations, warranties, and covenants set
forth elsewhere herein, Seller hereby makes the following representations and warranties in
connection with Co-op Loans:

(i) Seller or the Originator and the cooperative housing corporation have entered into
a recognition agreement that sets forth the specific rights of Seller and any

49 

successor servicer and the responsibilities of the cooperative housing corporation to Seller
and any successor servicer; and

(ii) The stock that is pledged as security for the Mortgage Loan is held by a Person as
a tenant-stockholder (as that term is defined in Section 216 of the Internal Revenue Code)
in a cooperative housing corporation (as that term is defined in Section 216 of the Internal
Revenue Code).

(gg)   Original Mortgage Loan Documents  . As to any Private Investor Loan, Seller has
delivered or is in the process of delivering all original Mortgage Loan Documents to the Investor
as required by the applicable Investor Agreement. Seller acknowledges that the deliveries
described in the preceding sentence are Seller s obligation and not Purchaser s.

(hh)   Tax Identification Numbers  . To Seller s knowledge, the related tax
identification number for each Mortgagor on Seller s EDP is accurate.

Section 5.10.   No Recourse  .

None of the Servicing Rights is subject to any Recourse Obligation.

Section 5.11.   Insurance  .

Error and omissions and fidelity insurance coverage, in the amounts required by the applicable
Investor, is in effect with respect to Seller and will be maintained with respect to the related
Mortgage Loans until the related Transfer Date.

Section 5.12.   Litigation  .

Except as disclosed on Schedule 5.12 hereto, there is no litigation, claim, demand, proceeding
or governmental investigation existing or pending, or to the knowledge of Seller, threatened, nor
is there any order, injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Seller that could (i)
have a material adverse effect upon the Servicing Rights being purchased by Purchaser hereunder
with respect to any Mortgage Loan individually, or the Mortgage Loans as a whole, or the
performance by Seller of its obligations under the Investor Agreements or (ii) to Seller s
knowledge, result in any material loss or liability to Purchaser. Further, to Seller s knowledge,
there is no meritorious basis for any such litigation, claim, demand, proceeding, or governmental
investigation.

Section 5.13.   No Accrued Liabilities  .

There are no accrued or contingent liabilities of Seller with respect to the Mortgage Loans or
Servicing Rights or circumstances under which such accrued or contingent liabilities will arise
against Purchaser, with respect to occurrences before each applicable Sale Date. Seller assumes
full responsibility for any and all early termination penalties and all transfer fees relating to
the Servicing Rights that may be outstanding on each applicable Transfer Date.

50 

Section 5.14.   Disclosure  .

All information provided by or on behalf of Seller or known to Seller to have been provided to
Purchaser in connection with the transaction contemplated by this Agreement (regardless of form,
and including information contained on computer files and data tapes) was, to Seller s knowledge,
materially complete, true, and accurate as of the date or dates on which such information was
prepared.

Section 5.15.   Facts and Omissions  .

All of the representations and warranties of Seller in this Agreement will be true in all
material respects as of each applicable Sale Date and each applicable Transfer Date regarding the
Mortgage Loans the Servicing Rights with respect to which are sold and/or transferred on those
dates. None of the written representations, information, or documentation furnished by Seller to
Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby has materially changed since it
was made or furnished, other than changes which would not otherwise have a material adverse effect
on the Servicing Rights.

Section 5.16.   Financial Condition of Seller  .

Neither Seller, its parent, nor any of its subsidiaries is in bankruptcy, receivership or
conservatorship. Seller has the requisite financial resources and ability to meet its obligations
under this Agreement, including, but not limited to, any and all indemnification and/or repurchase
obligations.

Section 5.17.   Investor Agreements  .

Under the Investor Agreements relating to any Investor other than FNMA, Purchaser shall not be
required to indemnify such Investor or any third parties for any acts or omissions of Originators
or Prior Servicers that occurred before the time that Purchaser assumed servicing responsibilities
for the Mortgage Loans.

Section 5.18.   Cendant Mortgage Loans  .

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no representation or warranty of
Seller in this Article V shall apply to any Cendant Mortgage Loan to the extent such representation
or warranty relates to any act or omission of Purchaser in connection with the origination of such
Cendant Mortgage Loan.

51 

ARTICLE VI.  
  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PURCHASER  

The representations and warranties of Purchaser contained in this Agreement shall continue and
survive each applicable sale of the Servicing Rights and each applicable delivery and assignment to
Purchaser of such Servicing Rights and shall inure to the benefit of Seller for a period of seven
(7) years following each applicable Sale Date. The seven (7) year limitation, however, shall not
apply in the event of Purchaser s willful misconduct. Seller is selling the Servicing Rights in
reliance on the truth and accuracy of each such representation or warranty. In addition to the
representations and warranties, if any, made elsewhere in this Agreement, Purchaser represents and
warrants to Seller, as of each applicable Sale Date and through each applicable Transfer Date,
except to the extent that a different date is specified in a particular representation or warranty,
as follows:

Section 6.01.   Due Incorporation and Good Standing  .

Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the
laws of the State of New Jersey. Purchaser has in full force and effect (without notice of
possible suspension, revocation or impairment) all required qualifications, permits, approvals,
licenses, and registrations, or exemption therefrom, to conduct all activities in all states in
which its activities with respect to the Mortgage Loans or the Servicing Rights require it to be
qualified or licensed.

Section 6.02.   Authority and Capacity; Ordinary Course  .

Purchaser has all requisite corporate power, authority and capacity to carry on its business
as it is now being conducted, to execute and deliver the Transaction Agreements, and to perform all
of its obligations thereunder. Purchaser does not believe, nor does it have any cause or reason to
believe, that it cannot perform each and every covenant contained in the Transaction Agreements.

Section 6.03.   Effective Agreement  .

The execution, delivery and performance of the Transaction Agreements by Purchaser and
consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary corporate, shareholder or other action by Purchaser; the Transaction Agreements have-been
or will be duly and validly executed and delivered by Purchaser, and the Transaction Agreements are
valid and legally binding agreements of Purchaser, enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with
their respective terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting generally the
enforcement of creditors  rights and the discretion of a court to grant specific performance of
contracts.

Section 6.04.   No Conflict  .

Neither the execution and delivery of the Transaction Agreements, nor the consummation of the
transactions contemplated thereby, nor compliance with their respective terms and conditions shall
(a) violate, conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a default under, be prohibited by
or require any additional approval under any terms, conditions or provisions of

52 

Purchaser s Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws or any other similar corporate or organizational
document of Purchaser; any mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement or other
agreement or instrument to which Purchaser is now a party or by which it is bound; or any law,
ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment or decree of any governmental authority applicable to
Purchaser; or (b) result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance of any
material nature upon any of the properties or assets of Purchaser.

Section 6.05.   Approvals and Compliance  .

Purchaser is approved by and in good standing with each Investor or Insurer, as necessary, and
holds all licenses, approvals, permits and other authorizations required under Applicable
Requirements to assume responsibility for the Servicing Rights.

Section 6.06.   Litigation  .

Except as disclosed on Schedule 6.06 hereto, there is no litigation, claim, demand, proceeding
or governmental investigation existing or pending, or to the knowledge of Purchaser, threatened,
nor is there any order, injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Purchaser that
could (i) have a material adverse effect upon the performance by Purchaser of its obligations under
the Investor Agreements or (ii) to Purchaser s knowledge, result in any material loss or liability
to Seller. Further, to Purchaser s knowledge, there is no meritorious basis for any such
litigation, claim, demand, proceeding, or governmental investigation.

Section 6.07.   Agency Approval  .

Purchaser has been approved by GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC and will remain approved as an  eligible
seller/servicer  of residential mortgage loans as provided in GNMA, FNMA, or FHLMC guidelines and
in good standing. Purchaser has not received any notification from GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC that
Purchaser is not in compliance with the requirements of the approved seller/servicer status or that
such agencies have threatened Purchaser with revocation of its approved seller/servicer status.
Purchaser is a mortgagee approved by the Secretary of HUD pursuant to Section 203 and 211 of the
National Housing Act. Purchaser has not received any notification from HUD that Purchaser is not
in compliance with the requirements of the approved mortgagee status or that such agencies have
threatened Purchaser with revocation of its approved mortgagee status.

Section 6.08.   Servicing Compliance  .

The servicing practices to be used by Purchaser under the Investor Agreements are, and shall
remain, in all material respects in compliance with all Applicable Requirements, including without
limitation, all federal, state and local laws, rules, all regulations and requirements in
connection therewith, and FNMA guidelines, as applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Purchaser s representations and warranties herein, to the extent relating to the proper servicing
of ARM Loans, shall become effective upon the fulfillment of the covenants set forth in  Section
4.35. 

53 

Section 6.09.   No Inquiries  .

Purchaser has not received written notice from or on behalf of FHA, HUD, FDIC, FNMA, FHLMC or
GNMA, advising Purchaser of its failure to comply with applicable servicing or claims procedures,
or resulted in a request for repurchase of Mortgage Loans or indemnification in connection with the
Mortgage Loans.

Section 6.10.   Contingency Plan  .

Purchaser has in place a contingency plan that will enable it to perform its obligations under
this Agreement, each of the Transaction Agreements, and each of the Investor Agreements in all
material respects, at another location within five (5) Business Days in the event its primary
location is rendered inoperative as a result of a natural or other disaster or emergency, and once
Purchaser relocates to its backup site, it shall make arrangements to connect Seller to Purchaser s
backup EDP and provide continued service as stated in this Agreement, provided that Purchaser has
granted Seller access to its primary EDP.

Section 6.11.   Licenses and Approvals  .

(a) Purchaser maintains and shall maintain, in good standing, all licenses and approvals
necessary to service the Mortgage Loans and maintains and shall at all times maintain the capital
requirements imposed by the licensing or approving entities having jurisdiction over Purchaser.

(b) Purchaser has filed applications for all applicable licenses and qualifications to do
business and to service the Mortgage Loans in the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Section 6.12.   Compliance with Applicable Requirements  .

Purchaser is and, at all times during which Purchaser owns the Servicing Rights, shall
continue to be in compliance in all material respects with all Applicable Requirements.

Section 6.13.   Fidelity and E O Insurance  .

Purchaser maintains and shall at all times maintain error and omissions and fidelity insurance
coverage of the type and in the amounts required by the applicable Investor Agreements.

Section 6.14.   Sufficiency of Systems and Personnel  .

Purchaser has, and shall at all times maintain during the term of this Agreement, sufficient
systems, including but not limited to Purchaser s EDP, and trained and experienced personnel in
place to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser s representations and warranties herein, to the extent
relating to the proper servicing of ARM Loans, shall become effective upon the fulfillment of the
covenants set forth in Section 4.35.

54 

Section 6.15.   Compliance with Laws  .

For so long as, and to the extent that, Purchaser owns the Servicing Rights, Purchaser will
continue to comply with applicable federal, state, or local, law, statute, and ordinance, and any
rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder, pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement,
including, but not limited to, usury, RESPA, Consumer Credit Reporting Act, Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, Regulation B, Fair Credit
Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Housing Act, Truth in Lending Act and
Regulation Z, Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, and any applicable regulations related
thereto, and such other fair housing, anti-redlining, equal credit opportunity, truth-in-lending,
real estate settlement procedures, fair credit reporting, and every other prohibition against
unlawful discrimination in residential mortgage lending or governing consumer credit, and all state
consumer credit statutes and regulations, as amended. In the event Seller has a reasonable good
faith belief in Purchaser s non-compliance with this Section 6.15 and upon Seller s written
request, Purchaser shall deliver to Seller reasonable evidence of compliance with any of the
requirements of this Section 6.15.

Section 6.16.   Facts and Omissions  .

All of the representations and warranties of Purchaser in this Agreement will be true in all
material respects as of each applicable Sale Date and each applicable Transfer Date regarding the
Mortgage Loans the Servicing Rights with respect to which are sold and/or transferred on such
dates. None of the written representations, information or documentation furnished by Purchaser to
Seller in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby has materially changed since it was
made or furnished other than changes which would not otherwise have a material adverse effect on
the Servicing Rights.

55 

ARTICLE VII.  
  CONSENTS  

Section 7.01.   Third Party Consents  .

(a) The purchase and sale of the Servicing Rights are subject to Seller s obtaining, at its
sole cost and expense, the related Third Party Consents. Seller shall use its best efforts to
obtain each Third Party Consent no later than fifteen (15) days prior to each applicable Transfer
Date unless other dates are agreed to by the parties. Any Third Party Consent may be a blanket
consent covering future transfers. Purchaser shall cooperate with Seller in obtaining the Third
Party Consents and shall timely respond to all reasonable requests from the Investor or other third
party concerning Purchaser and its business operations. Seller shall notify Purchaser in writing
immediately upon obtaining the Third Party Consents, and Seller shall provide a copy of the Third
Party Consents to Purchaser. Seller shall pay any and all transfer fees and related amounts
charged to obtain any Third Party Consent.

(b) If Seller fails, for any reason, to obtain any applicable Third Party Consent from the
applicable parties before March 10, 2000, the Bulk Offering Transfer Date and Initial Flow Offering
Transfer Date for the Mortgage Loans for which consent has not been obtained will be extended and
Seller shall continue to seek to obtain any applicable Third Party Consents. If such Third Party
Consents are not obtained by May 10, 2000, then (i) Seller shall, no later than two (2) Business
Days thereafter, return to Purchaser any portion of the Purchase Price already paid by Purchaser,
plus interest thereon at the daily Federal Funds Rate in effect from the date of any such payment
to the date of such reimbursement and (ii) concurrently with such reimbursement, Purchaser shall
reconvey the related Servicing Rights and associated documents to Seller, in the same manner as
Seller s conveyance of such Servicing Rights and documents to Purchaser hereunder (including all
representations and warranties relating to Purchaser s ownership of such Servicing Rights and all
corresponding officer s certificates). Immediately thereafter, the applicable Servicing Rights
shall revert to Seller, and Purchaser shall forward to Seller, within fifteen (15) days after
receipt of such portion of the Purchase Price, all servicing records and all documents in
Purchaser s possession relating to the subject of such repurchase. Except for Seller s repayment
obligation and Purchaser s reconveyance obligation to Seller, as described in the preceding
sentence, neither Seller nor Purchaser shall have any obligation hereunder to the other with
respect to any Servicing Rights for which Investor consents are not obtained.

56 

ARTICLE VIII.  
  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS OF PURCHASER  

The obligations of Purchaser under this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of the
following conditions:

Section 8.01.   Compliance and Conditions  .

All terms, covenants, and conditions of this Agreement required to be complied with and
performed by Seller shall have been duly complied with and performed by Seller in all material
respects on or before the date specified.

Section 8.02.   Corporate Resolution  .

Purchaser shall have received from Seller on or before the first Sale Date a duly executed
certificate of Seller s Secretary or Assistant Secretary reciting the corporate approval by Seller
of the sale by Seller of the Servicing Rights and authorizing Seller s officers to execute such
documents as may be necessary to carry out the transactions contemplated hereby.

Section 8.03.   No Material Adverse Change  .

As of each applicable Sale Date, there shall not have been any material adverse change in the
value and marketability of the Servicing Rights or the business or financial condition of Seller
since the date of this Agreement (in the case of the Bulk Offering Sale Date) or the immediately
preceding Sale Date (in the case of any Sale Date after the Bulk Offering Sale Date), other than
those that result from general changes in economic conditions including but not limited to
fluctuations in interest rates, changes to Applicable Requirements, or changes applicable to the
mortgage servicing industry generally. Notwithstanding anything contained herein,  material
adverse change  shall not include: (i) the merger of Seller with and into any of Seller s
Affiliates or (ii) each applicable sale and transfer of the Servicing Rights to Purchaser
hereunder.

Section 8.04.   Financial Ability to Indemnify  .

Purchaser shall have received, on or before the first Sale Date, evidence, satisfactory to
Purchaser in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, that Seller has the financial ability to
discharge its indemnity obligations, and any and all other financial obligations set forth herein.

Section 8.05.   Opinion of Counsel for Seller  .

Purchaser shall have received, on or before the first Sale Date, an opinion of the in-house
counsel of Seller (or of a law firm reasonably acceptable to Purchaser) dated as of the first Sale
Date, in form and substance satisfactory to Purchaser in the exercise of its reasonable discretion,
to the effect that: (a) Seller is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the
laws of its state of organization; (b) Seller has all requisite corporate power, authority and
capacity to enter into the Transaction Agreements and to perform the obligations required of it
thereby; (c) the execution and performance by Seller of the Transaction Agreements, Seller s
compliance with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby do
not

57 

and will not conflict with any of the terms of Seller s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or
any similar corporate documents of Seller, or, as to the attorney s knowledge, any material
contract or agreement, order or decree to which Seller is subject or by which it is bound; (d) the
Transaction Agreements have been duly executed by Seller and each is the valid and legally binding
obligation of Seller enforceable against Seller in accordance with their respective terms, subject
to bankruptcy, insolvency are similar laws affecting generally the enforcement of creditors  rights
and the discretion of a court to grant specific performance of contracts; and (e) to the knowledge
of such counsel, there is no litigation proceeding or governmental investigation existing, pending
or threatened, or any order, injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Seller that is
reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect upon the Servicing Rights and that has not
been disclosed by Seller to Purchaser on Schedule 5.12 hereto.

Section 8.06.   Correctness of Representations and Warranties  .

The representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement are true and correct in
all material respects as of each applicable Sale Date and each Transfer Date with respect to the
Servicing Rights transferred on such date, except where another date is specified therein.

Section 8.07.   Litigation or Administrative Action  .

As of each applicable Sale Date and each applicable Transfer Date, there shall not have been
commenced or, to Seller s knowledge, threatened, any action, suit or proceeding that enjoins, or is
likely to materially and adversely affect, the consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby.

Section 8.08.   Third Party Consents  .

As of each applicable Transfer Date, with respect to Servicing Rights to be transferred on
such Transfer Date, Purchaser shall have received the applicable Third Party Consents required by
Article VII.

Section 8.09.   Investor Agreements: Transaction Agreements  .

As of each applicable Transfer Date, the applicable Investor Agreements shall be in full force and
effect. On or prior to February 29, 2000 (or such later date as to which Purchaser and Seller may
hereafter agree), Purchaser and Seller shall have executed the Securitized Loan Primary Servicing
Agreement, the Subservicing Agreement and the MLCC Portfolio Agreement. As of each applicable
Transfer Date, the Transaction Agreements shall be in full force and effect and Seller shall have
complied in all material respects with the covenants, conditions, and agreements applicable to it
under the Transaction Agreements.

58 

ARTICLE IX.  
  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS OF SELLER  

The obligations of Seller under this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of the
following conditions:

Section 9.01.   Compliance with Conditions  .

All terms, conditions and covenants of this Agreement required to be complied with and
performed by Purchaser shall have been duly complied with and performed by Purchaser in all
material respects on or before the date specified.

Section 9.02.   Corporate Resolution  .

Seller shall have received from Purchaser on or before the first Sale Date a duly executed
certificate of Purchaser s Secretary or Assistant Secretary reciting the corporate approval by
Purchaser of the assumption and purchase from Seller of the Servicing Rights and authorizing
Purchaser s officers to execute such documents as may be necessary to carry out the transactions
contemplated hereby.

Section 9.03.   Correctness of Representations and Warranties  .

The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this Agreement are true and correct in
all material respects as of each applicable Sale Date and each Transfer Date with respect to the
Servicing Rights transferred on such date, except where another date is specified therein.

Section 9.04.   Third Party Consents  .

As of each applicable Transfer Date, with respect to Servicing Rights to be transferred on
such Transfer Date, Seller shall have received the Third Party Consents required by Article VII.

Section 9.05.   Opinion of Counsel for Purchaser  .

Seller shall have received, on or before the first Sale Date, an opinion of the in-house
counsel of Purchaser (or of a law firm reasonably acceptable to Seller) dated as of the first Sale
Date, in form and substance satisfactory to Seller in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, to
the effect that: (a) Purchaser is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the
laws of its state of organization; (b) Purchaser has all requisite corporate power, authority and
capacity to enter into the Transaction Agreements and to perform the obligations required of it
thereby; (c) the execution and performance by Purchaser of the Transaction Agreements, Purchaser s
compliance with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby do
not and will not conflict with any of the terms of Purchaser s Certificate of Incorporation or
Bylaws or any similar corporate documents of Purchaser, or, as to the attorney s knowledge, any
material contract or agreement, order or decree to which Purchaser is subject or by which it is
bound; (d) the Transaction Agreements have been duly executed by Purchaser and each is the valid
and legally binding obligation of Purchaser enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with their
respective terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and

59 

similar laws affecting generally the enforcement of creditors  rights and the discretion of a court
to grant specific performance of contracts; and (e) to the knowledge of such counsel, there is no
litigation proceeding or governmental investigation existing, pending or threatened, or any order,
injunction or decree outstanding against or relating to Purchaser that is reasonably expected to
have a material adverse effect upon the Servicing Rights and that has not been disclosed by
Purchaser to Seller on   Schedule 6.06   hereto.

Section 9.06.   No Material Adverse Change  .

As of each applicable Sale Date, there shall not have been any material adverse change in the
business or financial condition of Purchaser since the date of this Agreement (in the case of the
Bulk Offering Sale Date) or the immediately preceding Sale Date (in the case of any Sale Date after
the Bulk Offering Sale Date), other than those that result from general changes in economic
conditions including but not limited to fluctuations in interest rates, changes to Applicable
Requirements, or changes applicable to the mortgage servicing industry generally. Notwithstanding
anything contained herein,  material adverse change  shall not include the merger of Purchaser with
and into any of Purchaser s Affiliates.

Section 9.07.   Financial Ability to Indemnify  .

Seller shall have received, on or before the first Sale Date, evidence, satisfactory to Seller
in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, that Purchaser has the financial ability to discharge
its indemnity obligations, and any and all other financial obligations set forth herein.

Section 9.08.   Investor Agreements; Transaction Agreements  .

As of each applicable Transfer Date, the applicable Investor Agreements shall be in full force
and effect. On or prior to February 29, 2000 (or such later date as to which Purchaser and Seller
may hereafter agree), Purchaser and Seller shall have executed the Securitized Loan Primary
Servicing Agreement, the Subservicing Agreement and the MLCC Portfolio Agreement. As of each
applicable Transfer Date, the Transaction Agreements shall be in full force and effect and
Purchaser shall have complied in all material respects with the covenants, conditions, and
agreements applicable to it under the Transaction Agreements.

Section 9.09.   Litigation or Administrative Action  .

As of each applicable Sale Date and each applicable Transfer Date, there shall not have been
commenced or, to Purchaser s knowledge, threatened, any action, suit or proceeding that enjoins, or
is likely to materially and adversely affect, the consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby.

60 

ARTICLE IX-A  
  ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND BANK   
  SECRECY ACT COMPLIANCE  

Section 9A.01   Compliance.  

(a) Purchaser shall at all times undertake and perform the requirements set forth in Section
IV of the Operations Guide as the same may be amended from time to time (the  BSA Policies and
Procedures ). Purchaser shall comply with the BSA Policies and Procedures and shall take
reasonable steps to detect payments that are inconsistent with such policies and procedures. In
the event Purchaser retains the services of a third party vendor to process the receipt of funds
from Mortgagors (hereafter, a  Lock-Box Vendor ), Purchaser shall first obtain Seller s consent to
the selection of such Lock-Box Vendor which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Further,
Purchaser shall provide the BSA Policies and Procedures to any such Lock-Box Vendor and ensure that
such Lock-Box Vendor complies with the same.

(b) With respect to the mortgage servicing activities conducted by Purchaser on behalf of
Seller for all Seller Interest Mortgage Loans, Purchaser shall be responsible for assuring
compliance by Seller with Seller s obligations under the BSA by identifying and reporting possible
money laundering and other illegal activity to the extent set forth in the BSA Policies and
Procedures.

(c) Prior to the first Transfer Date, Purchaser shall have (i) appointed a suitable officer of
Purchaser to be responsible for compliance with the BSA Policies and Procedures; (ii) caused such
officer and any other appropriate persons to have participated in one or more training sessions on
anti-money laundering and bank secrecy act compliance, which sessions will be provided by Seller or
a third party vendor at Seller s expense; and (iii) implemented policies, procedures and internal
controls to undertake the BSA Policies and Procedures and shall have provided Seller with
photocopies of internal memoranda and other documents of Purchaser setting forth such policies,
procedures and internal controls.

(d) Failure of Purchaser to comply with the terms of this Article IX-A in all material
respects, including without limitation the failure of Purchaser to take any remedial action called
for by Seller as described in subsection (f) below, shall constitute grounds for Seller, in its
sole discretion, to terminate (i) this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.23(vii) and (ii) any other
Transaction Agreement(s).

(e) Purchaser shall indemnify Seller for any financial losses resulting from Purchaser s
failure to comply with the BSA Policies and Procedures.

(f) Seller, upon reasonable notice, may audit and test Purchaser s compliance with the
provisions of the BSA Policies and Procedures. Any such audit or test may be conducted by Seller s
internal auditors or other employees or by an outside auditing firm. If Seller detects weaknesses
in or exceptions to Purchaser s compliance with the BSA Policies and Procedures, Seller shall
notify Purchaser of its findings, and Purchaser shall immediately undertake the remedial action
suggested by Seller and shall report to Seller on the action taken. Failure on the part of
Purchaser to take such remedial action within 30 days after receipt from Seller of the notice

61 

described in the preceding sentence shall constitute grounds for termination of this Agreement and
any other Transaction Agreements as set forth in subsection (d) above.

62 

ARTICLE X.  
  INDEMNIFICATION  

Section 10.01.   Indemnification of Purchaser  .

Seller shall indemnify and hold Purchaser, its officers, directors, employees and agents (the
 Purchaser Indemnified Parties ) harmless from, and will reimburse the Purchaser Indemnified
Parties for, any and all Losses incurred by any of the Purchaser Indemnified Parties to the extent
that such Losses result from, are caused by, or arise out of any one or more of the following:

(a) Any material misrepresentations made by Seller in the Transaction Agreements or in any
Schedule, Exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant thereto;

(b) Any material breach of any representations and warranties of Seller or the nonfulfillment
of any term, covenant, condition, or obligation of Seller set forth in the Transaction Agreements
or in any Schedule, statement, Exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant thereto, or any default
or failure to perform by Seller thereunder;

(c) Any liabilities or obligations, contingent or otherwise, of Seller of any nature
whatsoever relating to Seller s obligations under this Agreement (other than those specifically
assumed by Purchaser under this Agreement), to the extent that any related Loss to Purchaser is not
increased by negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of Purchaser;

(d) The fact that any Advance is not fully collectible after reasonable good faith efforts on
the part of Purchaser to collect the Advance;

(e) Additional time afforded to a Mortgagor to pay real estate taxes in excess of that
permitted by Investor requirements, as described in Section 5.09(i) above; and

(f) Any failure on the part of Seller to have delivered an original Mortgage Note to an
Investor or its custodian, as applicable.

The indemnity provided in this Section 10.01 shall remain in full force and effect regardless
of any investigation made by Purchaser or its representatives.

Section 10.02. Repurchase of Mortgage Loans.

(a) (i) In the event that FNMA requests repurchase of a Mortgage Loan as a result of
any act, error or omission of Seller, any Originator (other than Purchaser) or any Prior
Servicer, or any employee, agent or representative acting on their behalf, or as a result of
any other fact or circumstance pertaining to the period before each applicable Sale Date,
Purchaser shall provide Seller with a written notice (a  Claim Notice ) identifying the
basis for the repurchase request. Any such Claim Notice shall be delivered to Seller within
seven (7) Business Days of FNMA s request. The Claim Notice shall be accompanied by a copy
of FNMA s repurchase request and all applicable supporting documentation, including but not
limited to servicing, collections and payment histories. Purchaser shall cooperate in good
faith with Seller in responding to FNMA s repurchase request and in seeking to

63 

remedy the problems giving rise to the repurchase request, including but not limited to
seeking an appropriate extension of time from FNMA to correct or cure the alleged defect or
indemnification demand. If Seller fails to cure the same within thirty (30) calendar days
(or such lesser or longer time as may be required by FNMA) from the date Purchaser provides
the Claim Notice to Seller, Purchaser agrees to allow Seller thirty (30) calendar days (or
such lesser or longer time as may be required by FNMA) to appeal the repurchase request.
After the expiration of this appeal period, upon Purchaser s demand, Purchaser shall
reconvey to Seller pursuant to Section 10.02(b)(ii), and Seller shall repurchase, such
Mortgage Loan or the related REO Property from Purchaser or FNMA, as applicable, at the
purchase price established by FNMA. Upon such repurchase, MLCC shall be the Investor and
the Purchaser shall service such Mortgage Loans pursuant to the MLCC Portfolio Servicing
Agreement.

(ii) If any Investor other than FNMA demands that Purchaser repurchase a Mortgage Loan
from such Investor as a result of any act, error or omission of Seller, any Originator or
any Prior Servicer, or any employee, agent or representative acting on their behalf,
pertaining to the period before the related Transfer Date, or as a result of any other fact
or circumstance pertaining to the period before the related Transfer Date, Purchaser shall
promptly notify Seller of the Investor s demand, and Seller shall either (i) repurchase the
Mortgage Loan from the Investor (if, and within the time period, required to do so by the
applicable agreement with the Investor) or (ii) take any action that is reasonably
acceptable to Purchaser to relieve Purchaser, within the time period required by such
Investor, of the obligation to repurchase such Mortgage Loan.

(b) When Seller is required to make a repurchase under Section 10.02(a)(i) above, such
repurchase shall be accomplished by (i) wire transfer of the applicable purchase price within five
(5) Business Days following Seller s receipt of a written demand from Purchaser pursuant hereto and
(ii) Purchaser s reconveyance of the related Mortgage Loan to Seller, together with an officer s
certificate of Purchaser to the effect that such Mortgage Loan is being reconveyed free and clear
of any and all encumbrances created by Purchaser.

(c) In connection with FNMA s repurchase request, in the event FNMA offers indemnification as
an alternative to repurchase, Purchaser shall not enter into an indemnification agreement with FNMA
without first obtaining Seller s prior written consent, which can be given through Seller s entry
into a tri-party indemnification agreement; provided, however, that Purchaser may enter into such
an indemnification agreement without Seller s consent, thereby waiving any further indemnification
and/or repurchase obligations of Seller under this Agreement with respect to the applicable
Mortgage Loan(s).

Section 10.03.   Indemnification of Seller  .

Purchaser shall indemnify and hold Seller, its officers, directors, employees and agents (the
 Seller Indemnified Parties ) harmless from, and will reimburse the Seller Indemnified, Parties
for, any and all Losses incurred by any of the Seller Indemnified Parties to the extent that such
Losses result from, are caused by or arise out of any one or more of the following:

64 

(a) Any material misrepresentations made by Purchaser in the Transaction Agreements, or in any
Schedule, Exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant thereto; or

(b) Any material breach of any of the representations and warranties of Purchaser or the
nonfulfillment of any term, covenant, condition or obligation of Purchaser set forth in the
Transaction Agreements or in any Schedule, statement, Exhibit, or certificate furnished pursuant
thereto, or any default or failure to perform by Purchaser thereunder.

(c) Any failure of Purchaser to comply with the terms of the Investor Agreements or any other
Applicable Requirements in connection with servicing the Mortgage Loans.

(d) Any liabilities or obligations, contingent or otherwise, of Purchaser of any nature
whatsoever relating to Purchaser s obligations under this Agreement, to the extent that any related
Loss to Seller is not increased by negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of
Seller;

(e) Any non-compliance with the, terms of the powers of attorney or the use thereof that
results in a Loss to Seller; or

(f) Any unauthorized use of the title  Limited Authorized Signatories  granted by Seller in
Section 4.23 that results in a Loss to Seller.

The indemnity provided in this Section 10.03 shall remain in full force and effect regardless
of any investigation made by Seller or its representatives.

Section 10.04.   Notice and Settlement of Claims  .

(a) In the event that either party to this Agreement becomes aware of any material fact giving
rise to any obligation of the other party under this Article X, including, but not limited to, any
claim or any litigation brought by a third party which may give rise to any such obligation, such
party shall promptly, but in no event later than seven (7) Business Days, provide the other party
with a notice describing the same. Failure to provide a notice within such seven (7) Business Day
period shall not relieve such other party of its obligations under this Article X, unless such
failure materially prejudices the rights or increases the liability of such other party, and then,
subject to Section 10.05, such other party s liability shall be reduced only by the amount that it
actually has been damaged by such failure.

(b) The indemnifying party (the  Indemnifying Party ) may, at its own cost and expense, assume
defense of any claim, suit, action or proceeding, provided that the counsel is satisfactory to the
indemnified party (the  Indemnified Party ) in the exercise of its reasonable discretion. The
party not controlling the defense or prosecution of any such claim, suit, action or proceeding may
participate at its own cost and expense.

(c) Neither the Indemnifying Party nor the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to settle,
compromise, decline to appeal, or otherwise dispose of any claim, suit, action or proceeding
without the consent of the other party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed).

65 

(d) Following the discharge of the Indemnifying Party s obligations under this Article X, the
Indemnified Party shall assign to the Indemnifying Party any and all related claims against third
parties. If the Indemnifying Party fails to discharge its obligations under this Article X, the
Indemnified Party shall be entitled (but not obligated) to pursue (as the assignee of the
Indemnifying Party) any and all claims against third parties which the Indemnifying Party otherwise
would have the right to pursue, including, but not limited to, claims against loan correspondents.
Within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the Indemnified Party shall refund to the Indemnifying
Party the amounts of all recoveries the Indemnified Party received from third parties with respect
to any claim for which the Indemnified Party was reimbursed for its Losses.

(e) Following the receipt of written notice from the Indemnified Party of a demand for
indemnification, the Indemnifying Party shall seek to cure the problem giving rise to the demand,
if possible, without any actual or contingent liability of the Indemnified Party, and pay the
amount for which it is liable, or otherwise take the actions which it is required to take within
thirty (30) days or such lesser time as may be required by an Investor, Insurer or third-party
claimant.

Section 10.05.   Limitation on Liability  .

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, with regard to all other
indemnification or repurchase liability of Seller, Seller shall not be required to indemnify
Purchaser or repurchase any Mortgage Loan and/or Servicing Rights, unless Seller receives the
related notice on or before the date that is seven (7) years after the applicable Sale Date, (or in
the case of indemnification pursuant to Section 10.01(c) (but only to the extent relating to
Seller s servicing of the Additional Collateral), five (5) years after the maturity or payoff of
the Mortgage Loan related to such indemnification claim, and Seller hereby waives the applicable
statute of limitations to the extent necessary to enable Purchaser to bring such claim), and
Purchaser shall not be required to indemnify Seller unless Purchaser receives the related notice on
or before the date that is seven (7) years after the applicable Sale Date (or in the case of
indemnification pursuant to 10.03(c), Section 10.03(d), Section 10.03(e) or Section 10.03(f), five
(5) years after the maturity or payoff of the Mortgage Loan related to such indemnification claim,
and Purchaser hereby waives the applicable statute of limitations to the extent necessary to enable
Seller to bring such claim).

66 

ARTICLE X-A.  
  OPERATIONS GUIDE AND PERMISSION AGREEMENT  

Section 10A.01   Operations Guide  .

Purchaser s performance of the Servicing Rights shall be subject to the terms of the
Operations Guide, to the extent not inconsistent with the terms of the applicable Investor
Agreements. The Operations Guide may be amended from time to time by Seller with Purchaser s prior
written consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), without formal amendment of this
Agreement. To the extent of a conflict between the Operations Guide and this Agreement, this
Agreement shall control.

Section 10A.02   Permission Agreement  .

The provisions of the Permission Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement.

67 

ARTICLE XI.  
  MISCELLANEOUS  

Section 11.01.   Supplementary Information  .

From time to time before and after each applicable Transfer Date, Seller shall furnish to
Purchaser such information supplementary to the information contained in the documents and
schedules delivered pursuant hereto which is reasonably available to Seller as Purchaser may
reasonably request in writing and/or which may be necessary to enable Purchaser to file any reports
or respond to Mortgagor or Investor inquiries in connection with the Mortgage Loans or Servicing
Rights so long as furnishing such information does not violate the Applicable Requirements.

Section 11.02.   Access to Information: Confidentiality  .

(a) Upon reasonable prior notice, (i) Seller shall afford reasonable cooperation to Purchaser
and its counsel, accountants and other representatives (collectively,  Purchaser s
Representatives ) in providing reasonable access during normal business hours throughout the period
between each Sale Date and each Transfer Date to examine Seller s files, books and records with
respect to the related Mortgage Loans and Servicing Rights and (ii) Purchaser shall afford
reasonable cooperation to Seller and its counsel, accountants and other representatives
(collectively,  Seller s Representatives ) in providing reasonable access during normal business
hours after each related Sale Date to examine Purchaser s files, books and records with respect to
the related Mortgage Loans and Servicing Rights. Seller shall be entitled to take reasonable and
appropriate actions to assure that Purchaser maintains the confidentiality of the names and
addresses of the Mortgagors under the Mortgage Loans and all non-public information obtained in
such investigation that could reasonably be construed to be of a confidential or proprietary
nature. Purchaser and Purchaser s Representatives shall treat as confidential all information
obtained in such investigation and not otherwise in the public domain. Each party shall, upon
reasonable notice to the other party, provide the other party with access to its premises during
normal working hours and access to reasonable cooperation with its officers and employees. The
salaries, travel, subsistence and other related expenses for the visiting party shall be borne by
such party. The party being visited shall, at its expense, make available all customary,
reasonable office space, facilities, and equipment for the visiting party.

(b) Purchaser shall, and shall cause Purchaser s Representatives and Purchaser s Affiliates
to, hold in confidence and not disclose to any third party without Seller s prior written consent,
all information relating to Seller received by Purchaser, Purchaser s Representatives and/or
Purchaser s Affiliates in connection with the transactions contemplated herein, other than
information (i) received by Purchaser, Purchaser s Representatives or Purchaser s Affiliates on a
non-confidential basis from a third party having a right to make such disclosure; (ii) that is or
becomes generally available to the public (except as a result of a disclosure in violation of this
Agreement); or (iii) required to be disclosed by law or regulatory or judicial process.

(c) Seller shall, and shall cause Seller s Representatives and Seller s Affiliates to, hold in
confidence and not disclose to any third party without Purchaser s prior written consent, all
information relating to Purchaser received by Seller and/or
Seller s Representatives in connection

68 

with the transactions contemplated herein, other than information (i) received by Seller or
Seller s Representatives on a non-confidential basis from a third party having a right to make such
disclosure; (ii) that is or becomes generally available to the public (except as a result of a
disclosure in violation of this Agreement); or (iii) is required to be disclosed by law or
regulatory or judicial process.

(d) Purchaser acknowledges that Seller is licensed as a mortgage
lender/originator/investor/servicer in numerous jurisdictions and that, pursuant to such licenses
and similar licenses, Seller is requested from time to time to make available to various
governmental officials and examiners various loan level information, documents, and similar items
including, but not limited to, certain  mortgage loan servicing  information. If Seller is
required to produce any such mortgage loan servicing information, Purchaser shall make all such
information available to Seller in a timely manner at Seller s cost and expense, provided that
Purchaser s dissemination of such information does not violate the Applicable Requirements.

(e) This Section 11.02 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

Section 11.03.   No Broker s Fees  .

Except as to any agreement Purchaser may have with Phoenix Capital, Inc. to pay Phoenix
Capital, Inc. s fees and commissions (for which Purchaser shall be solely responsible), each party
hereto represents and warrants to the other that it has made no agreement to pay any agent, finder,
or broker or any other representative, any fee or commission in the nature of a finder s or
broker s fee arising out of or in connection with the subject matter of this Agreement. The
parties hereto covenant with each other and agree to indemnify and hold each other harmless from
and against any such obligation or liability and any Losses incurred by the other in investigating
or defending any claim based upon the other party s actions under this Section. This Section 11.03
shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

Section 11.04.   Further Assurances  .

(a) Seller and Purchaser shall cooperate in good faith to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement.

(b) In order for the parties hereto to perform their respective obligations hereunder, each
party shall furnish to the other party such reports, information or documentation supplementary to
the information contained in the documents and schedules delivered pursuant hereto and deliver such
reports, information or documentation as may reasonably be requested by such party and as are
reasonably normal and customary in the mortgage loan servicing industry.

(c) Seller and Purchaser shall each execute and deliver to each other all such other
instruments or documentation as either may reasonably request in order to effect the transfer,
assignment and delivery to Purchaser of the Servicing Rights and the consummation of the agreements
hereunder, the assumption by Purchaser of the obligations under the Servicing Rights, and the
release of Seller from the obligations under the Servicing Rights.

69 

Section 11.05.   Solicitation  .

Without Seller s prior written consent, which may be withheld by Seller in its sole
discretion, neither Purchaser nor any Affiliate shall solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor
to be solicited, for subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan or any investment or financial
services or products, including, without limitation, insurance and brokerage account services.
Purchaser (but not any of its Affiliates) may solicit Mortgagors for prepayment of the related
Mortgage Loans, but only if (i) Purchaser has obtained Seller s prior written consent, which will
not be unreasonably withheld, (ii) such solicitation is made in compliance with Applicable
Requirements and (iii) upon obtaining any positive responses to such solicitation, Purchaser either
(A) processes and closes the related Mortgage Loans pursuant to the Origination Agreement (in the
case of Mortgage Loans subject to the Origination Agreement) or (B) forwards such responses to
Seller for Seller to process and close (in the case of Mortgage Loans not subject to the
Origination Agreement). Any Servicing Rights resulting from Mortgage Loans closed pursuant to
subclause (A) or subclause (B) of clause (iii) of the preceding sentence shall be sold to Purchaser
pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the purchase agreements between MLCC
and the following Investors prohibit solicitation and, accordingly, Purchaser may not solicit
Mortgagors for prepayment of Mortgage Loans for such Investors: First American Bank Texas, SSB,
Redwood Trust, Inc., RWT Holdings, Inc., and Thornburg Mortgage Asset Corporation. Neither Seller
nor any of its Affiliates shall be prohibited from soliciting any Mortgagor or causing any
Mortgagor to be solicited for any product or service now offered (or hereafter offered) by Seller
or any Affiliate of Seller, other than for prepayment of any Mortgage Loan. Purchaser shall not
prepare or disseminate, for compensation or otherwise, any mailing lists relating to the
Mortgagors, the Mortgage Loans, the Servicing Rights, or otherwise, including any lists of
Mortgagors, without Seller s prior written consent, which may be withheld by Seller in its sole
discretion. The parties hereto nevertheless agree that (i) either Purchaser, Seller or their
Affiliates may from time to time undertake promotions that are directed to either their own general
customer base or to the general public at large and that do not target Mortgagors directly,
including, without limitation, newspaper, radio and television advertisements and mass mailing or
telephone solicitations and that (ii) offers by Purchaser, Seller or their Affiliates to refinance
Mortgage Loans in response to, or as a result of, contact initiated by such the related Mortgagors
or their representatives shall not constitute solicitation.

Section 11.06.   Survival  .

Except as otherwise provided herein, all representations, warranties, covenants, indemnities
and other agreements of the parties to this Agreement set forth herein or in any Exhibit, Schedule
or other document or certificate delivered or to be delivered pursuant hereto shall survive each
applicable Sale Date and each applicable Transfer Date regarding the Mortgage Loans sold and/or
transferred on those dates.

Section 11.07.   Governmental Authorities; Laws and Severability  .

The terms and provisions of this Agreement are expressly made subject to applicable federal
and state statutes, laws, and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended from time to
time. Any rule, regulation or administrative policy of any government agency having jurisdiction
that relates to the transfer of the Servicing Rights to Purchaser and that is in

70 

effect on each applicable Sale Date shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, and shall supersede
the terms of this Agreement, unless such incorporation shall materially impair the contemplated
benefits to be received by the parties pursuant to this Agreement, in which event the parties shall
renegotiate the terms and conditions hereof to reflect a fair allocation of the economic benefits
contemplated hereby. In the event any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be in violation of any of the above, such provision shall be of no force
or effect, and this Agreement shall continue as though such superseded provision were not contained
in this Agreement.

Section 11.08.   Form of Payment to be Made  .

Unless otherwise provided herein or agreed to in writing by the parties, all payments
contemplated herein shall be made by wiring immediately available funds to the account designated
by Seller or Purchaser, as applicable.

Section 11.09.   Assignability; Sale of Servicing Rights  .

(a) Neither Seller nor Purchaser shall assign this Agreement, or delegate any duty hereunder,
without the prior written consent of the other party. Notwithstanding the above prohibition, this
Agreement may be assigned by either party to such party s Affiliate upon thirty (30) days  prior
written notice to the other party hereto, provided the Affiliate is an Affiliate as of the date
hereof.

(b) Purchaser shall not sell or transfer any Servicing Rights to any Person without the prior
written consent of Seller. In the event Purchaser desires to sell any Servicing Rights, it shall
first offer Seller the right to purchase the Servicing Rights and a 75-day period within which to
negotiate mutually acceptable terms.

Section 11.10.   Certain Costs  .

Seller shall pay all transfer fees and early termination penalties imposed by Investors.
Seller and Purchaser shall equally share the costs of (i) shipping the Set-up Files and the
Mortgage Files, (ii) any training required for Purchaser s employees to properly service the
Mortgage Loans in accordance with the provisions of Article X-A and (iii) duplicating any imaged
documents. All other costs of acquiring new servicing (such as mailings, new record input and so
forth) that normally accompany servicing transfers shall be borne by Purchaser. Seller and
Purchaser shall each bear the costs of their respective due diligence fees and attorney s fees.

Section 11.11.   Notices  .

All notices, requests, demands and other communications that are required or permitted to be
given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given if delivered personally,
transmitted by facsimile (and telephonically confirmed), mailed by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, or sent by commercial overnight courier to the other party at the
following address:

71 

If to Purchaser, to:

Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 
Attn: Robert E. Groody 
Chief Financial Officer 
Ph: (856) 917-6822 
Fax: (856) 917-6910

With a Copy to:

Cendant Mortgage Corporation 
3000 Leadenhall Road 
Mail Stop LGL 
Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08054 
Attn: William Brown, Esq. 
General Counsel 
Ph: (856) 917-9403 
Fax: (856) 917-9422

If to Seller, to:

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, Florida 32246 
Attn: Robert J. Smith 
Title: Senior Vice President 
Ph: (904) 218-6056 
Fax: (904) 218-6114

72 

With a Copy to:

Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation 
4802 Deer Lake Drive East 
Jacksonville, Florida 32246 
Attn: John J. Donlon 
General Counsel 
Ph.: (904) 218-8830 
Fax: (904) 218-8848

or to such other address as Purchaser or Seller shall have specified in writing to the other.

Section 11.12.   Entire Agreement: Construction  .

The Transaction Agreements constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereof. No amendments, modifications, or supplements of this Agreement shall be
binding unless executed in writing by the parties hereto. Reference to Sections, Subsections,
Schedules, or Exhibits in this Agreement are to Sections and Subsections of, and Schedules and
Exhibits to, this Agreement. The Schedules and Exhibits are part of this Agreement. Accounting
terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The words  herein ,  hereby ,  hereunder  and other words of
similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision. This
Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation, (i) consents, waivers
and modifications that may hereafter be executed, (ii) documents received by any party at the
closing, and (iii) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter
furnished, may be reproduced by any photographic, photostatic, microfilm, micro-card, miniature
photographic or other similar process. The parties agree that any such reproduction shall be
admissible in evidence as the original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding, whether
or not the original is in existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by a party in the
regular course of business, and that any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such
reproduction shall likewise be admissible in evidence.

Section 11.13.   Binding Effect  .

This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their
respective permitted successors and permitted assigns.

Section 11.14.   Headings; Plurals; Genders  .

Section and Article headings are for reference purposes only and shall not be deemed to have
any substantive effect. In construing the words of this Agreement, plural constructions will
include the singular, and singular constructions will include the plural. No significance will be
attached to whether a pronoun is masculine, feminine, or neuter.

73 

Section 11.15.   Applicable Law  .

This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the substantive laws of
the state of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed in the state of New York
and the obligations, rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be determined in accordance
with such laws.

Section 11.16.   Counterparts  .

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which, taken together,
shall constitute one and the same Agreement. The parties hereto agree that the closing of this
transaction may occur with the execution of the Transaction Agreements by each party and the
exchange of signatures by telefax, with original, signed Transaction Agreements to follow by
overnight mail.

Section 11.17.   Waivers  .

No term or provision of this Agreement may be waived or modified unless such waiver or
modification is in writing and signed by the party against whom such waiver or modification is
sought to be enforced. The waiver by either party hereto of a breach of any provision of this
Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other or subsequent breach.

Section 11.18.   Publicity  .

Except as required by applicable law, neither party hereto shall issue a press release or
similar announcement or communication relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated
herein using the other party s name without such other party s prior written consent.

Section 11.19.   No Third Party Beneficiaries  .

Except as expressly provided herein, nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer any
right, remedy, obligation or liability upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their
respective successors and permitted assigns.

Section 11.20.   Attorney Fees, Costs, etc  .

If any action at law or in equity, including an action for declaratory relief, is brought to
enforce or interpret the provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to
recover reasonable attorney fees and court costs from the other party. Such fees may be set by the
court in the trial of such action or may be enforced in a separate action brought for that purpose.
Such fees shall be in addition to any other relief that may be awarded.

Section 11.21.   Merger or Consolidation of Seller and Purchaser  .

(a) Seller and Purchaser shall each keep in full effect, their respective existences, rights
and franchises as corporations in the states of their incorporation except as permitted herein, and
will obtain and preserve their respective qualifications to do business as foreign entities in each

74 

jurisdiction in which such qualification is or shall be necessary to: (i) protect the validity and
enforceability of this Agreement, or of any of the Mortgage Loans; and/or (ii) and to perform their
respective duties under this Agreement.

(b) Subject to each party s right pursuant to Section 11.23, to terminate this Agreement upon
the occurrence of an event described in Section 11.23(ii), any entity into which Seller or
Purchaser may be merged or consolidated, or any entity resulting from any merger, conversion or
consolidation to which Seller or Purchaser shall be a party, or any entity succeeding to the
business of Seller or Purchaser, shall be the successor of Seller or Purchaser hereunder, without
the execution of filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto,
anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding; provided, however, that for mergers prior to each
applicable Transfer Date, the successor or surviving entity shall be an institution whose business
is the origination or servicing of mortgage loans, unless otherwise consented to by Purchaser or
Seller, as applicable, and shall be qualified to service mortgage loans on behalf of FNMA.

Section 11.22.   Term of Agreement  .

This Agreement shall terminate at the close of business on December 31, 2002 unless renewed
pursuant to the written agreement of Seller and Purchaser.

Section 11.23.   Termination  .

Notwithstanding Section 11.22, this Agreement may be terminated at any time by the applicable
party, (i) upon a material adverse change in the other party s standing with HUD, FNMA, FHLMC or
GNMA, (ii) upon any merger, sale of substantially all of such party s assets, or sale of a
controlling interest that results in a change in control of such party (other than any such change
of control that results in such party being owned or controlled by an Affiliate of such party in
existence on the date of this Agreement), (iii) under the circumstances specified in Section
3.01(b)(ii), (iv) under the circumstances specified in Section 4.01(e), (v) under the circumstances
specified in Section 9A.01(f)(vi) under the circumstances specifies in Section is 11.25, (vii) upon
the material breach, by the other party, of any other term, covenant, agreement, representation or
warranty in this Agreement that has not been cured after written notice and a thirty (30) day
curative period, (viii) following entry against the other party of a decree or order of a court or
agency or supervisory authority having jurisdiction for the appointment of a trustee, conservator,
receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) for the other
party in any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, readjustment of debt, marshaling of assets
and liabilities or similar proceedings, or for the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs, if
such decree or order has remained in force undischarged or unstayed for a period of sixty (60)
days, (ix) upon consent by the other party to the appointment of a trustee, conservator, receiver,
liquidator, assignee, custodian or sequestrator (or other similar official) in, or commencement by
the other party of a voluntary case under, any federal or state bankruptcy insolvency, readjustment
of debt, marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings of or relating to the other
party or of or relating to all or substantially all of the other party s property or (x) upon the
other party s (A) admitting in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due,
(B) filing a petition to take advantage of any applicable insolvency or reorganization statute, (C)
making an assignment for the benefit of its creditors or
(D) voluntarily suspending payment of its obligations.

75 

Section 11.24.   Cross Default  .

In the event of a default (that remains uncured after the expiration of any applicable cure
period, if any) under either (i) the MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement, (ii) the Subservicing
Agreement, (iii) the Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement and/or (iv) the Permission
Agreement, Seller may at its option terminate this Agreement.

Section 11.25.   Failure of Purchaser to Maintain Service Standards  .

(a) If, as evidenced by the monthly reports that Purchaser is required to furnish to Seller
pursuant to Section II of the Operations Guide, any service standard set forth in Section I of the
Operations Guide is not satisfied (a  Service Deficiency ) during    * * *   , at Seller s request
Purchaser shall develop a plan describing the countermeasures and targets/goals Purchaser will use
to correct the Service Deficiency, and Purchaser shall present such plan to Seller within 15 days
after Seller has notified Purchaser of the Service Deficiency. Within 15 days after receiving the
plan from Purchaser, Seller shall either (x) accept the plan or (y) instruct Purchaser to modify
the plan, and, in the case of clause (y), Purchaser shall make such modifications. Unless Seller
agrees otherwise, Purchaser shall cure the Service Deficiency within 60 calendar days (the  Level I
Curative Period ) from the date on which Seller has accepted the plan or notified Purchaser of the
modifications to be made to the plan.

(b) If Purchaser fails to correct any Service Deficiency by the end of the Level I Curative
Period, then, for a period not to exceed 90 days from the end of any Level I Curative Period,
Purchaser shall pay Seller liquidated damages of $   * * *   . Purchaser shall pay such liquidated
damages to Seller by wire transfer of immediately available funds within five (5) Business Days
after receipt of an invoice from Seller. If a Service Deficiency has not been cured within such
90-day period, Seller may at its sole option, within sixty (60) days thereafter, terminate this
Agreement and any or all other Transaction Agreements.

(c) If a Service Deficiency has not been cured and Seller elects not to terminate this
Agreement as provided for in Section 11.25(b), then within fifteen (15) days of Seller s request,
Purchaser shall develop and present a plan to Seller describing new countermeasures and
targets/goals which Purchaser will use to correct the Service Deficiency. Following receipt of the
plan, Purchaser and Seller shall follow and be subject to the requirements of Section 11.25(a) and
(b), including but not limited to the liquidated damages and termination provisions.

(d) The remedies set forth in this Section 11.25 shall be in furtherance of, and not in
limitation of, Seller s remedies under this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements.

Section 11.26.   Effect of Termination of Agreement  .

In the event this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof:

(i) Seller s obligation hereunder to sell, and Purchaser s obligation hereunder to buy,

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. 

76 

Subsequent Flow Offering Servicing Rights and Quarterly Bulk Offering Servicing Rights shall
terminate. No Subsequent Flow Offering Sale Date or Quarterly Bulk Offering Sale Date shall take
place after such termination.

(ii) Articles X and X-A, Sections 11.02, 11.03, 11.05, 11.06, 11.09(b), 11.18 and 11.25 and
this Section 11.26 shall remain in effect after such termination, and all provisions relating to
the allocation of responsibility for costs incurred by Seller and/or Purchaser shall remain in
effect with respect to acts occurring before such termination.

(iii) If a Repricing Event results in the termination by Seller of this Agreement, then
Purchaser shall have the right to request a change to the subservicing compensation as more
specifically provided for in the Subservicing Agreement and the Securitized Loan Primary Servicing
Agreement.

(iv) If Seller terminates this Agreement and any or all of the other Transaction Agreements,
the remedies for liquidated damages set forth in Section 11.25 shall not apply as to any mortgage
loan that Purchaser continues to service.

77 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned parties has caused this Servicing Rights
Purchase and Sale Agreement to be duly executed by a duly authorized representative, all as of the
date first written above.

SELLER   
MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION

By:

/s/ Robert J. Smith

Name: Robert J. Smith 

Title: Senior Vice President 

PURCHASER   
CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION

By:

/s/ Robert E. Groody

Name: Robert E. Groody 

Title: Senior Vice President 

EXECUTION COPY 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 1

By And Between

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION

and

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION

Dated As Of

January 2, 2000

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 1

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 1, dated as of January 2, 2001 (this   Agreement  ), by and
between MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer
Lake Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION
d/b/a PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall
Road, Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504 ( Cendant ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement,
dated as of January 28, 2000 (the   Servicing Agreement  ), a copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit 

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Portfolio Servicing Agreement, dated as of January
28, 2000 (the   Portfolio Agreement  ), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Loan Sub-Servicing Agreement, dated as of
January 28, 2000 (the   Sub-Servicing Agreement  ), a copy of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit 

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant have entered into a Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement,
a Trademark Use Agreement, an Origination Assistance Agreement and a Loan Purchase and Sale
Agreement, each dated as of December 15, 2000 and each with an effective date as of the date
hereof (collectively, the   New Agreements   and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant, having entered into the New Agreements, wishes to amend
the Servicing Agreement, the Portfolio Agreement and the Sub-Servicing Agreement in order to
properly reflect the current relationships between the parties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and
agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendments to the Servicing Agreement . The Servicing Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:

(a)  Section 1.01 . Section 1.01 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Additional
Collateral  and replacing it with the following:   Additional
Collateral  means, with respect to any Mortgage 100 Loan or Parent
Power Mortgage Loan, the marketable securities subject to a security
interest pursuant to the related Mortgage 100 Pledge Agreement or the
Parent Power Guaranty and Security Agreement for Securities Account.  

ii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Cendant Mortgage
Loan  and replacing it with the following:    Cendant Mortgage
Loan   means a 

1 

Mortgage Loan originated by Purchaser pursuant to either (i) the
1997 Origination Agreement or (ii) the 2000 Origination Agreement.  

iii. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof  to the end of the definition of
 MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement.  

iv. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Origination
Agreement  and replacing it with the following:    Origination
Agreements   means the 1997 Origination Agreement and the 2000
Origination Agreement.  

v. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    1997
Origination Agreement   means the Mortgage Loan Purchase and
Services Agreement dated as of September 24, 1997 between Seller and
PHH Mortgage Services Corporation, as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.  

vi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    2000
Origination Agreement   means the Origination Assistance Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000 between the Seller and the Purchaser,
as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the
terms thereof.  

vii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Permission
Agreement  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Permission Agreement   means (i) from January 28, 2000 through
January 1, 2001, the Permission Agreement dated as of January 28,
2000 between Seller and Purchaser and (ii) on and after January 2,
2001, the Trademark Use Agreement.  

viii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Trademark Use Agreement   means the Trademark Use Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000, with an effective date as of January
2, 2001, between Seller and Purchaser. 

ix. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence of the definition
of  Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan  and replacing it with the following
sentence:    Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loan   means (a) any
Mortgage Loan purchased by Seller through its correspondent lending
network, (b) on or prior to January 1, 2001, a construction loan that
has been converted to a permanent Mortgage Loan, (c) on and after
January 2, 2001, a construction loan that has been converted to a
PrimeFirst    Mortgage Loan (as contemplated by the 2000 Origination
Agreement), or (d) any other mortgage loan that the parties may
mutually agree to designate.  

2 

x. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   PrimeFirst  Mortgage Loan   means an adjustable rate loan
offered by MLCC in which the monthly debt repayments thereunder for
approximately the first 120 months of the term thereof are interest
only.  

xi. 
       
     Replacing the word  Losses  each time it
appears in clause (a) of the definition of  Recourse Obligation  with
the word  losses.  

xii. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof  to the end of the definition of
 Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement.  

xiii. 
       
     Replacing the words  permitted successors and
assigns  in the definition of  Seller  with the words  successors and
permitted assigns.  

xiv. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence of the definition
of  Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans  and replacing it with the
following sentence:    Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans   means
Mortgage Loans originated after March 10, 2000;  provided ,
 however , that on and after January 2, 2001,  Subsequent Flow
Mortgage Loans  shall mean only PrimeFirst  Mortgage Loans originated
pursuant to the 2000 Origination Agreement.  

xv. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Transaction
Agreements  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Transaction Agreements   means this Agreement, the Permission
Agreement, the MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement, the 2000
Origination Agreement, the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as
of December 15, 2000 between Purchaser and Seller, and the Equity
Access  and Omega Subservicing Agreement dated as of January 2, 2001
between Purchaser and Seller; provided, however, that the term
Transaction Agreements  shall not include any agreements which have
been terminated in accordance with their respective terms.  

xvi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Account
Number   means an account number or similar form of access number
relating to a Borrower s Mortgage Loan or other financial product or
service with or from Seller other than any internal identifying
number assigned by Purchaser to the Mortgage Loan.  

xvii. 
       
     In the definition of  Applicable
Requirements,  (A) adding  collectively, (1)  between the words
 reference  and  with  in the first line thereof, (B) replacing the
first parenthetical in clause (b) with the following words
 (including laws, statutes, rules, regulations, administrative
interpretations and ordinances as well as any of the foregoing
requirements applicable to Seller by virtue 

3 

of its state licenses, qualifications and exemptions and by virtue
of its being a subsidiary of Merrill Lynch Bank USA) , (C) deleting
the word  and  immediately prior to clause (f), and (D) adding the
following to the end of such definition:  and (g) any applicable
MLCC or Merrill Lynch Bank USA internal policies and procedures, as
revised from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, and
(2) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended.  

xviii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Borrower Information  
means any personally identifiable information or records in any form
(written, electronic, or otherwise) relating to a Borrower,
including, but not limited to, a Borrower s name, address, telephone
number, loan number, loan payment history, delinquency status,
insurance carrier or payment information, tax amount or payment
information; the fact that the Borrower has a relationship with
Seller; and any other personally identifiable information.  

xix. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Law  
means any United States federal, state or local statute, law,
ordinance, regulation, rule, code, order; requirement, judgment,
decree, writ, injunction or rule of law (including common law).  

xx. 
       
     Adding the following definitions:    MLCC
Data   means any data, databases, reports and records relating to
financial products from or services with MLCC, including, without
limitation, Account Numbers, Borrower Information, and data derived
therefrom.  

xxi. 
       
     Adding the following definitions:    MLCC
Services   shall mean collectively, the Origination Services and
Purchaser s obligations under the Servicing Rights.  

xxii. 
       
     Adding  (including the MLCC Data with respect
thereto)  between the words  loan  and  other  in the second line of
the definition of  Mortgage Loan.  

xxiii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Origination Services  
shall mean the loan origination services to be performed by Purchaser
for and on behalf of Seller as detailed in the Origination
Agreement.  

xxiv. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Personnel   of a Party shall mean such Party, its employees,
subcontractors, consultants, representatives and agents.  

xxv. 
       
     Adding the following definition:  Software
means the proprietary computer software programs, and related
Software Documentation, 

4 

listed on Exhibits A, B and C of the Licensing Agreement,
excluding any Third Party Software that may be embedded therein.  

xxvi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Software Documentation   means, with respect to any Software,
the operating instructions and user, installation, set-up,
configuration, training and support manuals for the Software or any
part thereof, whether prepared by Seller or any Third Party, in any
form or medium whatsoever.  

xxvii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Termination Assistance
Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.26.  

xxviii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Termination Assistance
Services   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.23.  

xxix. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Third
Party Software   means any software or program and related Software
Documentation incorporated into or used separately or in connection
with the Software, that is owned by a Third Party and licensed to
Seller.  

xxx. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Borrower   means the borrower with respect to any Mortgage
Loan.  

(b)  Section 2.01(a) . The second sentence of Section 2.01(a) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Replacing the word  For  at the beginning of
such sentence with the words  With respect to.  

ii. 
       
     Inserting the word  such  between the words
 all  and  Mortgage  in clause (i) of such sentence. 

(c)  Section 3.01(a) . The second sentence of Section 3.01(a) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by replacing the last four words of such sentence ( any such
Mortgage Loan ) with the words  any Mortgage Loan described in the preceding clause
(i). 

(d)  Section 3.02(a) . The second sentence of Section 3.02(a) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by deleting the word  Initial  in the first line thereof.

(e)  Section 3.02(b) . The first sentence of Section 3.02(b) of the Servicing
Agreement is amended by deleting the word  Initial  in the fourth line thereof.

(f)  Section 4.01(e) . Section 4.01(e) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the last two sentences thereof in
their entirety. 

5 

ii. 
       
     The second sentence is amended by (A)
replacing the words  Prospectively, in the event that either party to
this Agreement believes, in good faith,  with the words  The parties
acknowledge,  and (B) deleting the words  , then such party shall
provide written notice to the other of the purported change in the
Applicable Requirements.  

iii. 
       
     The third sentence is amended by replacing the
words  Thereafter, the  with the word  The  and replacing the words
 the purported  with the word  this.  

(g)  Section 4.03 . Section 4.03 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     In paragraph (c), replacing the word  Losses 
each time it appears with the word  losses.  

ii. 
       
     In paragraph (d), inserting the words  During
the MLCC Interim Servicing Period,  at the very beginning of such
paragraph. 

iii. 
       
     In paragraph (e), inserting the words  ,
during the MLCC Interim Servicing Period ,  between the words  that 
and  Seller  in the first line thereof. 

(h)  Section 4.06(b) . Section 4.06(b) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting  (i)  before the beginning of the first sentence thereof.

(i)  Section 4.07 . Section 4.07 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by inserting
the words  (or Purchaser on behalf of Seller)  between the words  Seller  and  and  in the
first line of the second paragraph thereof.

(j)  Section 4.09(a) . Section 4.09(a) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the word  such  (i) between the words  each  and  Transfer  in the second sentence
thereof and (ii) between the words  each  and  applicable  in the third sentence thereof.

(k)  Section 4.15 . Section 4.15 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     In paragraph (a), replacing the words  except
a  with  other than any  in the first parenthetical in the first
sentence thereof. 

ii. 
       
     In paragraph (a), inserting the words  (other
than any Cendant Mortgage Loan)  between the word  Loan  and  within 
in the third sentence thereof. 

iii. 
       
     In paragraph (a), inserting the word  such 
between the words  any  and  Mortgage  in the fifth sentence thereof. 

6 

iv. 
       
     In paragraph (a), inserting the word  such 
between the words  each  and  original  in the last sentence thereof. 

v. 
       
     In paragraph (c), inserting the words  (other
than any Cendant Mortgage Loan)  between the words  Loan  and
 Seller  in the first sentence thereof. 

vi. 
       
     Adding at the end of such section the
following text as subparagraph (g):  (g) For the avoidance of doubt,
the parties hereto acknowledge and agree (i) that any obligations set
forth in this Section 4.15 shall not apply with respect to any
Mortgage Loan which is also a Cendant Mortgage Loan and (ii) that the
payment holdback provisions of subparagraph (f) of this Section 4.15
shall not apply with respect to any Cendant Mortgage Loan.  

(1)
 New Sections 4.36 - 4.40 . The Servicing Agreement is amended by adding the
following new sections, to be numbered 4.36 through 4.40:

Section 4.36  Work Policy . Personnel of either Party working on the premises of the
other Party (excluding in the case of Purchaser, premises of Seller leased to Purchaser), and
all other Personnel required by Law or government rules or regulations, shall comply with the
safety, security and other regulations of the other Party generally applicable to its outside
contractors and Personnel particular to each work location, including, where applicable,
internal security department fingerprinting, photographing and screening processes. Personnel
of a Party, when deemed appropriate by the other Party, will be issued visitor identification
cards. Each such card will be surrendered by upon demand by the other Party or upon termination
of this Agreement or completion of the relevant MLCC Services. Unless otherwise agreed by the
Parties, Personnel of each Party will observe the working hours, working rules, and holiday
schedules of the other Party while working on the other Party s premises (excluding in the case
of Purchaser, premises of Seller leased to Purchaser). Each Party shall advise the other Party
immediately in the event that any Personnel with security access to any premises of the other
Party (i) is no longer assigned to perform MLCC Services, or (ii) is no longer employed by such
Party.

Section 4.37  Use of Hardware and Software . In the event that Purchaser shall be
performing MLCC Services on behalf of Seller and any third party utilizing common hardware
and/or Software, Seller shall have the right, on reasonable notice to Purchaser and at Seller s
sole cost and expense, to audit such hardware and Software to ensure segregation of MLCC Data
from third party data adequate to prevent unauthorized disclosure of MLCC Data to third parties,
and to ensure the security of MLCC Data in accordance with normal industry practices, provided
that such audit shall not disrupt Purchaser s ability to perform the MLCC Services.

7 

Section 4.38.  Technical Architecture Standards . On notice thereof, Purchaser shall
comply with all reasonable Seller information management technical architecture standards
related to interfacing with Seller systems, as identified and amended by Seller from time to
time.

Section 4.39.  Compliance with Policies . Purchaser shall, upon notice thereof by
Seller, comply with all of Seller s commercially reasonable policies and procedures regarding
security and safeguarding of MLCC Data.

Section 4.40.  Continuation of MLCC Services . Purchaser acknowledges that the provision
of MLCC Services is critical to the business and operations of Seller. In the event of a fee
dispute between Seller and Purchaser pursuant to which either Party in good faith believes it is
entitled to withhold payment of the disputed amount or for which either Party in good faith
believes payment is due, each Party shall continue to perform its obligations under the
Ancillary Agreements, including continuing to pay undisputed amounts. Neither Party shall not
under any circumstances suspend or disrupt, or seek any injunctive or other equitable relief for
the purpose of suspending or disrupting, directly or indirectly, provision of the services to
the other Party under the Ancillary Agreements or the normal business operations of the other
Party.

(m)  New Article IV-A . The Servicing Agreement is amended by adding the following
text as new Article IV-A, to be labeled  Mutual Representations: 

Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the other Party as follows:

Section 4A.01.  Kickbacks . No employee, agent or representative of the other Party has
been offered, shall be offered, has received, or shall receive, directly or indirectly, from
such Party, any gratuities, merchandise, cash, services benefit, fee, commission, dividend,
gift, or other inducements or consideration of any kind in connection with this Agreement.

Section 4A.02.  Government Officials . No person employed by such Party in connection
with the performance of its obligations under this Agreement is an official of the government of
any foreign country, or of any agency thereof, and no part of any moneys or consideration paid
to such Party hereunder shall accrue for the benefit of any such official.

Section 4A.03.  No Relation . No individual who will receive specific compensation from
such Party as a result of the execution of this Agreement is related to any public official or
official of any issuer of municipal securities. For purposes of this Section, the term
 official of an issuer of municipal securities  means any person who is an incumbent, candidate
or successful candidate (a) for elective office of any issuer which office is directly or
indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of a broker, dealer or
municipal securities dealer for municipal securities business by such issuer, or (b) for any
elective office of a state or of any political subdivision, which office has authority to
appoint any official(s) of such issuer. The term  related  applies when a person is related by
blood or marriage. 

(n)  Section 5.09(d)(iii ). Section 5.09(d)(iii) of the Servicing Agreement is
amended by inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator  and  or 
in the second sentence thereof.

8 

(o)  Section 5.09(h).  Section 5.09(h) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Inserting the words  (if not the Purchaser) 
between the words  Originator  and  and  in the first sentence
thereof. 

ii. 
       
     Inserting the words  (other than Purchaser) 
between the words  Originator  and  was  in the last sentence
thereof. 

(p)  Section 5.09(n) . Section 5.09(n) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator  and  and/or  in the
first sentence thereof.

(q)  Section 5.09(t) . Section 5.09(t) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the words  None of the Mortgage Loans are subject to bi-weekly payment plans, and the 
in second to last sentence of such section and inserting the word  The  in lieu thereof.

(r)  Section 5.09(y) . Section 5.09(y) of the Servicing agreement is amended by
inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator  and  or  in the
fourth line of the first sentence thereof.

(s)  Section 5.09(gg) . Section 5.09(gg) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the words  which is not a Cendant Mortgage Loan  between the words  Loan  and
 Seller  in the first line thereof.

(t)  Section 5.17 . Section 5.17 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by inserting
the words  (unless the Purchaser was the Originator)  between the words  Originators  and  or 
in the third line thereof.

(u)  Section 5.18 . Section 5.18 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text of such section and replacing it with the following:  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, no representation or warranty is
made by the Seller at any time with respect to any Cendant Mortgage Loan to the extent such
representation or warranty relates to any act or omission of Purchaser in connection with
the origination of such Cendant Mortgage Loan. 

(v)  Reserved. 

(w)  Section 8.06 . Section 8.06 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
inserting the following after the last word in such section:  and except as set forth in
Section 5.18. 

(x)  Section 9A.01 . Section 9A.01(d) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
(i) deleting the words  grounds for Seller, in its sole discretion, to terminate (i) this
Agreement pursuant to Section 11.23(vii) and (ii) any other Transaction Agreement(s) 
and inserting the words  a Service Deficiency for purposes of Section 11.25  in lieu
thereof and (ii) deleting the last sentence of paragraph (f) in its entirety.

9 

(y)  Section 10.01(f) . Section 10.01(f) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
adding the words  (other than with respect to any Cendant Mortgage Loan)  between
the words  Note  and  to. 

(z)  Section 10.02(a)(ii) . Section 10.02(a)(ii) of the Servicing Agreement is
amended by inserting the words  (other than Purchaser)  between the words  Originator 
and  or  in the third line of the first sentence thereof.

(aa)  Section 11.02(a) . Section 11.02(a) of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
adding the words  (including outside accountants)  between the words  accountants  and  and  in
clause (ii) of the first sentence thereof.

(bb)  Section 11.05 . Section 11.05 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

(i) 
       
     Deleting the first sentence thereof and
replacing it with the following:  Without Seller s prior written
consent, which consent may be withheld by Seller in its sole
discretion, neither Purchaser nor any Affiliate of Purchaser shall
solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be solicited, for
subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate
financing arranged under the Equity Access program) or any product or
service whatsoever, including, without limitation, any investment or
financial services or products, insurance products or services and
brokerage account services.  

ii. 
       
     Inserting the word  respective  between the
words  their  and  Affiliates  in each of clauses (i) and (ii) of the
last sentence of such section. 

(cc)  Section 11.15 . Section 11.15 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text in such section and inserting the following:  This Agreement shall be
governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York
applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State. All actions and
proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined
exclusively in any New York State court or any federal court sitting in the County of
New York. The parties hereto expressly consent and agree to the exclusive jurisdiction
of any such court or venue therein. 

(dd)  Section 11.22 . Section 11.22 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text contained in such section and inserting the following:  This Agreement
shall automatically expire and terminate upon the earlier of (i) December 31, 2010 and
(ii) the date upon which the 2000 Origination Agreement is terminated in accordance with
the terms thereof. If the 2000 Origination Agreement shall have been extended for an
extension term, this Agreement shall be automatically extended for the same extension term
without any action by the parties hereto. 

(ee)  Section 11.23 . Section 11.23 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

10 

i. 
       
     Deleting the text contained in each of clauses
(ii), (iv), (v) and (vi) in the first sentence of such section, and
in each such clause, inserting the words  intentionally omitted  in
lieu thereof. 

ii. 
       
     Adding the following text at the end thereof:
 Without limitation of the foregoing, if (A) a PHH Competitor Change
of Control (as defined in the 2000 Origination Agreement) shall have
occurred, then at any time after Seller shall have received notice of
such PHH Competitor Change of Control, Seller may, by giving written
notice thereof to Purchaser, terminate this Agreement as of a future
date specified in such notice of termination; or (B) a PHH Change of
Control (as defined in the 2000 Origination Agreement) (other than a
PHH Competitor Change of Control) shall have occurred, then at any
time within 30 days after the two year anniversary of such PHH Change
of Control, Seller may, by giving written notice thereof to
Purchaser, terminate this Agreement as of a future date specified in
such notice of termination.  

(ff)  Section 11.24 . Section 11.24 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by
deleting the text contained in such section in its entirety and inserting the following
in lieu thereof:  In the event of a default (that remains uncured after the expiration
of the applicable cure period, if any) under any of (i) the Origination Assistance
Agreement, (ii) the Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement, (iii) the Trademark Use
Agreement, and/or (iv) the MLCC Portfolio Servicing Agreement, the non-defaulting party
may, at its option, terminate this Agreement. 

(gg)  Section 11.25.  Section 11.25 of the Servicing Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the words  terminate this Agreement
and any or all other Transaction Agreements  at the end of paragraph
(b) and inserting  require Purchaser to solicit bids for a
subservicer as provided in paragraph (d) below  in lieu thereof. 

ii. 
       
     Deleting the words  terminate this Agreement
as provided for in Section 11.25(b)  in the first line of paragraph
(c) and inserting  solicit bids for a subservicer as provided in
paragraph (d) below  and deleting the words  and termination  in the
last sentence of such paragraph.  

iii. 
       
     Adding the following text as new paragraph
(d): 

(d) In the event that Seller shall have the right to require Purchaser to solicit bids for a
Subservicer as provided in (b) above, then Purchaser, upon Seller s written demand, shall
proceed as follows:

(i) Purchaser shall prepare a request for proposal ( RFP ) for a Subservicer to assume
Purchaser s obligations relating to the Servicing Rights. Purchaser shall

11 

submit
such RFP to Seller for review within    * * *    of Seller s written demand that
Purchaser solicit bids for a Subservicer. Purchaser shall incorporate Seller s reasonably
requested revisions to such RFP within    * *
*    of Purchaser s receipt of Seller s requested
revisions.

(ii) Purchaser shall submit the final RFP to no less than three (3) residential Mortgage
Loan servicers reasonably chosen by Seller.

(iii) Purchaser shall select the bid requested by Seller.

(iv) Purchaser shall pay the costs of the entity chosen by Seller as the Subservicer to
assume Purchaser s obligations relating to the Servicing Rights. If, however, the bid selected
by Seller is the highest bid and such bid exceeds the second highest bid by    * * *   , then Seller
shall be responsible for the difference between the selected bid and    * * *  of the second
highest bid. 

iv. Relabeling current paragraph (d) as paragraph (e) and deleting the words  and the other
Transaction Agreements  in such paragraph.

(hh)  New Section 11.27 . The Servicing Agreement is hereby amended by
adding the following new Section 11.27:

Section 11.27  Termination Assistance . (a) Upon expiration or termination of all or
part of the MLCC Services for any reason, Purchaser shall for a period of one (1) year (the
 Termination Assistance Period ), upon Seller s request and at Seller s expense, continue to
provide the MLCC Services that were provided prior thereto ( Termination Assistance Services ).
In providing Termination Assistance Services, Purchaser shall provide such reasonable
cooperation and technical assistance to Seller, or to a third-party service provider designated
by Seller, as required to facilitate the transfer of the affected MLCC Services to Seller or
such third-party service provider. The rights of Seller under this Section shall be without
prejudice to the Parties  rights to pursue legal remedies for breach of this Agreement, either
for breaches prior to termination or during the period this Agreement is continued in force
post-termination. Termination Assistance Services shall be provided for the same fees as prior
to termination, and Purchaser shall use commercially reasonable efforts to perform the MLCC
Services at the same service levels as prior to termination. MLCC hereby agrees to continue to
provide the services or meet its obligations contemplated to be provided by it under this
Agreement during the Termination Assistance Period in order to assist Purchaser in complying
with this
 Section 11.26(a). 

(b) If and to the extent requested by  Seller , whether prior to, upon, or following any
termination of this Agreement, Purchaser shall reasonably assist Seller in developing a plan
which shall specify the tasks to be performed by the Parties in connection with the Termination
Assistance Services and the schedule for the performance of such tasks. The transition plan
shall include descriptions of the MLCC Services, service levels, fees, documentation and access
requirements that will promote an orderly transition of the MLCC Services.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

12 

(c) For a period of six (6) months following the Termination Assistance Period, Purchaser
shall: (i) answer all reasonable and pertinent verbal or written questions from Seller
regarding the MLCC Services on an  as needed  basis; and (ii) deliver to Seller any remaining
Seller-owned reports and documentation still in Purchaser s possession. 

(ii) The Servicing Agreement is amended by replacing, throughout the entire
agreement, any reference to  the Origination Agreement  or any other similar reference to
 Origination Agreement  that connotes the singular form of such definition, with  any
Origination Agreement  or  the Origination Agreements  or  the applicable Origination
Agreement  or any other similar reference that connotes the plural form of such
definition, as the context may require.

SECTION 2 .  Amendments to the Portfolio Agreement . The Portfolio Agreement
is hereby amended as follows:

(a)  Section 1.01 . Section 1.01 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Additional
Collateral  and replacing it with the following:    Additional
Collateral   means with respect to any Mortgage 100 Loan or and
Parent Power Mortgage Loan, the marketable securities subject to a
security interest pursuant to the related Mortgage 100 Pledge
Agreement or the Parent Power Guaranty and Security Agreement for
Securities Account.  

ii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Cendant Mortgage
Loan  and replacing it with the following:   Cendant Mortgage
Loan  means a Mortgage Loan originated by Purchaser pursuant to
either (i) the 1997 Origination Agreement or (ii) the 2000
Origination Agreement.  

iii. 
       
     In the definition of  Mortgage Loan, 
inserting the words  (or any Person on behalf of Owner)  between the
words  Owner  and  originates  in the third line thereof. 

iv. 
       
     In the definition of  Mortgage Loan Schedule, 
inserting the words  (or any Person on behalf of Owner)  between the
words  Owner  and  originates  in the fourth line thereof. 

v. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Origination
Agreement  and replacing it with the following:    Origination
Agreements   means the 1997 Origination Agreement and the 2000
Origination Agreement.  

vi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    1997
Origination Agreement   means the Mortgage Loan Purchase and
Services Agreement dated as of September 24, 1997 between Seller and
PHH Mortgage Services Corporation, as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.  

13 

vii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    2000
Origination Agreement   means the Origination Assistance Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000 between the Seller and the Purchaser,
as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the
terms thereof.  

viii. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Permission
Agreement  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Permission Agreement   means (i) from January 28, 2000 through
January 1, 2001, the Permission Agreement dated as of January 28,
2000 between Seller and Purchaser and (ii) on and after January 2,
2001, the Trademark Use Agreement.  

ix. 
       
     Adding the following definition:
   Trademark Use Agreement   means the Trademark Use Agreement
dated as of December 15, 2000 between Seller and Purchaser.  

x. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Purchase and Sale
Agreement  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Purchase and Sale Agreements   means the First Purchase and
Sale Agreement and the Second Purchase and Sale Agreement.  

xi. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    First
Purchase and Sale Agreement   means the Servicing Rights Purchase
and Sale Agreement dated as of January 28, 2000, between the Owner,
as seller, and the Company, as purchaser.  

xii. 
       
     Adding the following definition:    Second
Purchase and Sale Agreement   means the Servicing Rights Purchase
and Sale Agreement dated as of December 15, 2000, between the Owner,
as seller, and the Company, as purchaser.  

xiii. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to
time in accordance with the terms thereof  to the end of the
definition of    Securitized Loan Primary Servicing Agreement  .  

xiv. 
       
     Adding the words  as amended from time to time
in accordance with the terms thereof to the end of the definition of
   Subservicing Agreement.    

xv. 
       
     Deleting the definition of  Transaction
Agreements  and replacing it with the following definition:
   Transaction Agreements  , means this Agreement, the Permission
Agreement, the First Purchase and Sale Agreement, the 2000 Origination
Agreement, the Loan
Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of December 15, 2000 between
Purchaser and Seller, and the Equity Access    and Omega
Subservicing Agreement dated as of January 2, 2001 between 

14 

Purchaser and Seller; provided, however, that the term
 Transaction Agreements  shall not include any agreements which have
been terminated in accordance with their respective terms.  

xvi. 
       
     In the definition of  Applicable
Requirements,  (A) adding  collectively, (1)  between the words
 reference  and  with  in the first line thereof, (B) replacing the
first parenthetical in clause (b) with the following words
 (including laws, statutes, rules, regulations, administrative
interpretations and ordinances as well as any of the foregoing
requirements applicable to Company by virtue of its state licenses,
qualifications and exemptions and by virtue of its being a subsidiary
of Merrill Lynch Bank USA) , (C) deleting the word  and  immediately
prior to clause (f), and (D) adding the following to the end of such
definition:  and (g) any applicable MLCC or Merrill Lynch Bank USA
internal policies and procedures, as revised from time to time in
accordance with the terms hereof, and (2) the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act of 1977, as amended.  

(b)  Section 2.01(i) . Section 2.01(i) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
adding the following sentence at the end of such paragraph:  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Company acknowledges and agrees that the Owner maintains agreements with
document custodians selected by it from time to time, pursuant to which such custodians
maintain Mortgage Loan files on behalf of the Owner. The Company agrees to cooperate
with such custodians and request from such custodians the documents and Mortgage Files
required by the Company which are maintained by such custodians (with a copy of such
request sent to the Owner).

(c)  Section 2.04(a) . Section 2.04(a) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended
by adding the words  (including outside accountants)  between the words  accountants  and
 supervisory  in the first line thereof.

(d)  Reserved. 

(e)  Section 5.02(a)(i) . Section 5.02(a)(i) of the Portfolio Agreement is
amended by inserting the words  any custodian that maintains documents or Mortgage Files
on behalf of the Owner,  between the words  Owner,  and  any  in the first line thereof.

(f)  Section 5.02(a)(ii) . Section 5.02(a)(ii) of the Portfolio Agreement is
amended by inserting after the end of the first sentence the following words:  The
Company shall, as the Owner may request, either (A) enter into such agreements with the
Owner, in which case the Owner s rights and obligations thereunder shall be freely
assignable and delegable to the Subsequent Purchaser without any further action or
consent by the Company, or (B) enter into such agreement directly with the Subsequent
Purchaser. 

15 

(g)  Section 5.02(a)(iii) . Section 5.02(a)(iii) of the Portfolio Agreement
is amended by inserting the words  for the benefit of the Subsequent Purchaser  after the
words  Purchase and Sale Agreement  in the second line thereof.

(h)  Section 5.02(a) . Section 5.02(a) of the Portfolio Agreement is
amended by replacing the period at the end of subclause (vii) with a semicolon and
adding the word  and  after such inserted semicolon.

(i)  Section 8.01 . Section 8.01 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by:

(i) 
       
     Deleting the first sentence thereof and
replacing it with the following:  Without Owner s prior written
consent, which consent may be withheld by Owner in its sole
discretion, neither Company nor any Affiliate of Company shall
solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be solicited, for
subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than subordinate
financing arranged under the Equity Access program) or any product or
service whatsoever, including, without limitation, any investment or
financial services or products, insurance products or services and
brokerage account services.  

(ii) 
       
     Inserting the word  respective  between the
words  their  and  Affiliates  in each of clauses (i) and (ii) of the
last sentence of such section. 

(j)  Section 10.01 . Section 10.01 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
deleting the text contained in clause (b) at the end of the first paragraph of such
section and inserting in lieu thereof the words  as to the First Purchase and Sale
Agreement, such agreement may be terminated as to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and
the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans, as more particularly defined therein. 

(k)  Section 10.02(b) . Section 10.02(b) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended
by deleting the words  any or all other Transaction Agreements  at the end of such
section, and inserting the following in lieu thereof:  the First Purchase and Sale
Agreement as to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans,
as more particularly defined therein. 

(1)  Section 10.02(d) . Section 10.02(d) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended
by deleting the words  and the other Transaction Agreements. 

(m)  Section 15.02(a ). Section 15.02(a) of the Portfolio Agreement is amended
by adding the words  (including outside accountants)  between the words  accountants  and
 and  in the second line thereof.

(n)  Section 15.13 . Section 15.13 of the Portfolio Agreement is amended by
deleting the text of such section in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
 This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State.
All

16 

actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and
determined exclusively in any New York State court or any federal court sitting in the
County of New York. The parties hereto expressly consent and agree to the exclusive
jurisdiction of any such court or venue therein. 

(o) The Portfolio Agreement is amended by replacing, throughout the entire
agreement, any reference to  the Origination Agreement  or any other similar reference
to  Origination Agreement  that connotes the singular form of such definition, with  any
Origination Agreement  or  the Origination Agreements  or  the applicable Origination
Agreement  or any other similar reference that connotes the plural form of such
definition, as the context may require.

(p) The Portfolio Agreement is amended by replacing, throughout the entire
agreement (except as set forth in Section 2(j) above), any reference to  the Purchase
and Sale Agreement  or any other similar reference to  Purchase and Sale Agreement  that
connotes the singular form of such definition, with  any Purchase and Sale Agreement  or
 the Purchase and Sale Agreements  or  the applicable Purchase and Sale Agreement  or
any other similar reference that connotes the plural form of such definition, as the
context may require.

SECTION 3 .  Amendments to the Sub-Servicing Agreement . The Sub-Servicing
Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

(a)  Section 7.01 . Section 7.01 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended
by:

i. 
       
     Deleting the first sentence thereof and
replacing it with the following:  Without Servicer s prior written
consent, which consent may be withheld by Servicer in its sole
discretion, neither Subservicer nor any Affiliate of Subservicer
shall solicit any Mortgagor, or cause any Mortgagor to be solicited,
for subordinate financing of any Mortgage Loan (other than
subordinate financing arranged under the Equity Access program) or
any product or service whatsoever, including, without limitation, any
investment or financial services or products, insurance products or
services and brokerage account services.  

ii. 
       
     Inserting the word  respective  between the
words  their  and  Affiliates  in each of clauses (i) and (ii) of the
last sentence of such section. 

(b)  Section 14.01 . Section 14.01 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended
by (i) deleting the text  any other Transaction Agreement. (As  contained in the first
sentence of such section and inserting in lieu thereof the word  as  and (ii) deleting
the  )  at the end of the first sentence, as such first sentence has been amended by
clause (i) of this Section 3(b).

17 

(c)  Section 14.02(b) . Section 14.02(b) of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is
amended by deleting the words  any or all other Transaction Agreements  at the end of
such section, and inserting the following in lieu thereof:  the First Purchase and Sale
Agreement as to the Subsequent Flow Mortgage Loans and the Quarterly Bulk Mortgage Loans,
as more particularly defined therein. 

(d)  Section 14.02(d) . Section 14.02(d) of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is
amended by deleting the words  and the other Transaction Agreements. 

(e)  Section 17.14 . Section 17.14 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended
by deleting the text of such section in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
 This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State.
All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard
and determined exclusively in any New York State court or any federal court sitting in
the County of New York. The parties hereto expressly consent and agree to the exclusive
jurisdiction of any such court or venue therein. 

(f)  Section 1.01 . Section 1.01 of the Sub-Servicing Agreement is amended by
making the following changes in the definition of  Applicable Requirements : (A) adding
 collectively, (1)  between the words  reference  and  with  in the first line thereof,
(B) replacing the first parenthetical in clause (b) with the following words  (including
laws, statutes, rules, regulations, administrative interpretations and ordinances as well
as any of the foregoing requirements applicable to Servicer by virtue of its state
licenses, qualifications and exemptions and by virtue of its being a subsidiary of
Merrill Lynch Bank USA) , (C) deleting the word  and  immediately prior to clause (f),
and (D) adding the following to the end of such definition:  and (g) any applicable MLCC
or Merrill Lynch Bank USA internal policies and procedures, as revised from time to time
in accordance with the terms hereof, and (2) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977,
as amended. 

SECTION 4 .  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed
in and to be performed in that State. All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to
this Agreement shall be heard and determined exclusively in any New York State court or any
federal court sitting in the County of New York. The parties hereto expressly consent and agree
to the exclusive jurisdiction of any such court or venue therein.

SECTION 5 .  Waiver of Jury Trial . Each of the parties hereto hereby waives
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law any right it may have to a trial by jury with
respect to any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with
this Agreement or any Terminated Agreement.

SECTION 6 .  Specific Performance . The parties hereto agree that
irreparable damage would occur in the event any provision of this Agreement were not performed
in accordance with the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to specific
performance of the terms hereof, in addition to any other remedy at law or in equity.

18 

SECTION 7 .  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Agreement
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

SECTION 8 .  Miscellaneous . This Agreement may be modified or amended only
be a writing signed by the parties hereto. This Agreement may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an
original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 9 .  Fees and Expenses . All costs and expenses incurred in
connection with this Agreement, the termination of the Terminated Agreements or the transactions
contemplated hereby and thereby shall be paid by the party incurring such expenses.

SECTION 10 .  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Servicing
Agreement and the Portfolio Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect, and
are hereby ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 11 .  Benefit and Binding Effect . The terms of this Agreement shall
be effective as of the date hereof, upon signature of counterparts by all parties, and shall be
binding upon and inure to the benefit of MLCC and Cendant and their respective successors and
permitted assigns.

19 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the
date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Kevin O  Hanlong

Name:   

Title:   

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the
date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:   

Name:   

Title: 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Joseph Sutter

Name: Joseph Sutter  

Title: Senior Vice President  

20 

EXECUTION COPY 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 
to the 
Servicing Rights Purchase and 
Sale Agreement dated as of January 28, 2000 

By and between 

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

and 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

Dated as of 

October 18, 2004 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 2 
to the Servicing Rights Purchase and 
Sale Agreement dated as of January 28, 2000 

AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 2 to the Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of
January 28, 2000 , dated as of October 18, 2004 (this   Amendment No. 2  ), by and between
MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 4802 Deer Lake
Drive East, Jacksonville, Florida 32246 (  MLCC  ), and CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION d/b/a
PHH Mortgage Services, a New Jersey corporation, with offices located at 3000 Leadenhall Road,
Mt. Laurel, New Jersey 08504 (  Cendant  ).

WHEREAS, MLCC and Cendant are parties to a Servicing Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement,
dated as of January 28, 2000, as amended by the Amendment Agreement No. 1, dated as of January
2, 2001 (as amended, the  Servicing Agreement  and

WHEREAS, each of MLCC and Cendant desires to supplement the Servicing Agreement with the
terms and provisions set forth in this Amendment No. 2 in order to reflect their agreement with
respect to the services to be provided by Cendant for MLCC s Bulk Sale Program;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective covenants and
agreements set forth in this Amendment No. 2, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Governing Law . This Amendment No. 2 shall be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 2.  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Amendment No. 2
are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Amendment No. 2.

SECTION 3.  Counterparts . This Amendment No. 2 may be executed (including by
facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an
original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

SECTION 4.  Ratification . Except as amended hereby, the Servicing Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed. To the
extent that there is a conflict between the terms of this Amendment No. 2 and those of the
Servicing Agreement, the terms of this Amendment No. 2 shall control.

SECTION 5.  Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Servicing Agreement. As used in this Amendment
No. 2, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

(a)   Alternative Wholesale Product   means (i) any Mortgage Loan product currently
available in the Cendant wholesale product offering that is not available in the

2 

MLCC wholesale product offering and (ii) any other Mortgage Loan product as determined on
a case by case basis by the parties hereto.

(b)   Bulk Purchase   means the purchase of any Standard Bulk Product or
Non-Standard Bulk Product.

(c)   Bulk Purchase Matrix   means the correspondent pricing schedule attached
hereto as Exhibit A.

(d)   Bulk Sale Program   means the program pursuant to which MLCC is making
Bulk Purchases of Mortgage Loans from Correspondent Lenders pursuant to the Bulk Sale
Addendum between MLCC and such Correspondent Lenders.

(e)   Correspondent Lender   means a Person in the business of originating,
making and selling first lien residential Mortgage Loans secured by a mortgage on
one-to-four family dwellings.

(f)   Mortgage Loan Product Category   means the following categories of
Mortgage Loans, purchased by or on behalf of MLCC as part of its Bulk Sale Program: (i)
Jumbo Fixed; (ii) Jumbo ARM; and (iii) PrimeFirst/SuperARM.

(g)   No Point Rate   means the applicable posted rate for Mortgage Loans with
zero points as of the applicable Sale Date as set by MLCC and posted by Cendant for
Portfolio Loans and as set and posted by Cendant for Cendant Loans.

(h)   Non-Standard Bulk Product   means any of the Alternative Wholesale
Products and/or any Portfolio Loans originated other than in accordance with MLCC
Underwriting Guidelines.

(i)   Servicing Rights   has the meaning assigned in the Servicing Agreement.
The last sentence of such definition will not be applicable to this Amendment No. 2.

(j)   Standard Bulk Product   means any of the Portfolio Loans originated in
accordance with MLCC Underwriting Guidelines.

SECTION 6 . Servicing Rights Purchase Price; Pricing Changes.

(a) Except as specifically described herein, Cendant shall pay to MLCC for each
Mortgage Loan acquired by MLCC under the Bulk Sale Program the Purchase Price in accordance
with Article III of the Servicing Agreement. The Purchase Price for any Servicing Rights
purchased hereunder shall be based on the Bulk Purchase Matrix.

(b) Within the thirty-day period prior to the end of each calendar quarter, either
party to this Amendment No. 2 may make a written request to the other party (a  Repricing
Request ) that the Bulk Purchase Matrix be amended with respect to any Mortgage Loan
Product Category to which such Repricing Event relates, and any such Repricing Request
shall be accompanied by a copy of the proposed amended Pricing Matrix prepared by the
requesting party. If MLCC and Cendant agree to adopt the

3 

proposed amended Bulk Purchase Matrix, it shall become effective on the first Business Day
of the calendar quarter immediately following the date of such Repricing Request. A new
Exhibit A shall be attached hereto and acknowledged in writing by the parties to reflect
such purchase price adjustments. If, within 30 days after the date on which a Repricing
Request was delivered hereunder by one party to the other pursuant to this section, MLCC and
Cendant are unable to agree on the terms of an amended Bulk Purchase Matrix with respect to
a Mortgage Loan Product Category as to which such Repricing Request was made, the parties
agree that Cendant shall subservice Mortgage Loans within such Mortgage Loan Product
Category. This arrangement will continue until such time as the parties can reach
mutually agreeable terms with respect to future purchases of Servicing Rights for loans in
such Mortgage Loan Product Category. The subservicing shall be governed by the Subservicing
Agreement. Notwithstanding any other agreement to the contrary between the parties hereto,
the cost for such subservicing shall be $   * * *   .

(c) For Non-Standard Bulk Purchases only, to the extent that MLCC wishes to purchase
Alternative Wholesale Products and sell the Servicing Rights to Cendant, MLCC shall forward
an electronic copy of the bid tape describing the Mortgage Loans to Cendant. Cendant will
then have 48 hours to respond to MLCC with its bid for the purchase of the Servicing Rights
on such Mortgage Loans except in those instances when such 48-hour period falls within the
first five business days of the month, in which event the 48-hour period within which
Cendant shall respond to MLCC with its bid shall begin as of the end of such five day
period.

SECTION 7.  Ineligible Mortgage Loans . MLCC (i) shall not be entitled to receive any
Purchase Price from Cendant for the Servicing Rights to any Bulk Sale Program Mortgage Loan that,
as of the applicable Sale Date, (x) is 60 days or more past due (including Mortgage Loans in
foreclosure proceedings), (y) is in Litigation or (z) has a Mortgagor who is in bankruptcy (any
such Mortgage Loan, a  Defaulted Loan ) and (ii) shall pay Cendant $   * * *    upon MLCC s assignment,
to Cendant, of the Servicing Rights to any such Mortgage Loan. In addition, MLCC shall not be
entitled to receive any Purchase Price from Cendant for (i) Servicing Rights for Mortgage Loans
with note rates greater than    * * *  basis points over the applicable No Point Rate for fixed rate
Mortgage Loans or hybrid Mortgage Loans or (ii) Servicing Rights for Mortgage Loans with margins
over    * * *    basis points for PrimeFirst 6 month/1 month LIBOR Mortgage Loans or Defaulted Loans.

SECTION 8.  Prepayment Protection . MLCC shall reimburse Cendant for any Payoff Loan
an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the Servicing Rights Purchase Price and (ii) the amount of
premium recapture received by MLCC from the Correspondent Lender.

SECTION 9.  Servicing Standards . Cendant will apply standards and procedures
consistent with its own portfolio and FNMA requirements and such servicing by Cendant shall be in
compliance with all Applicable Requirements. Service standards and related reporting requirements
in Exhibit D of the Agreement or, in the case of the Non-Standard Bulk Products, the applicable
contract, will not apply to this servicing.

SECTION 10 . Sale of Servicing Rights. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 11.09 of the Servicing Agreement between the parties dated January 28, 2000, or in any
other agreement between the parties, MLCC agrees that Cendant may sell or transfer any or

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

4 

all of the Bulk Sale Program Servicing Rights to any Person, subject to MLCC s reasonable
consent if MLCC is the investor, and otherwise subject only to the consent of the applicable
third party investors obtained in accordance with MLCC s investor agreements. For purposes of
this Section 10, MLCC may reasonably withhold its consent upon a good faith determination that a
proposed sale or transfer will have a material adverse effect on MLCC s ability to sell or
securitize Mortgage Loans as to which MLCC is the investor hereunder, but not otherwise.

SECTION 11.  Miscellaneous . For Non-Standard Bulk Purchases only, the loading
procedure for Alternative Wholesale Products will require a six week lead time, or such other
period as the parties may agree, to ensure that they can be input into the CA$H system. For such
purchases, a substitute process will be used in the interim. For Non-Standard Bulk Purchases
only, no products other than the Portfolio Loans and the Alternative Wholesale Products can be
supported in the CA$H system, except as provided in Section 2.02(a)(i) of the Amendment No. 2 to
Addendum No. 1 to the Origination Assistance Agreement dated as of October 18, 2004.

SECTION 12.  Term . The term of this Amendment No. 2 shall automatically expire on
December 31, 2005 (the  Initial Term ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Amendment No. 2
shall be automatically extended, subject to the following sentence, without any action by the
parties hereto, for successive renewal terms of one year each, in each case beginning on January
1 of such renewal year and ending as of the following December 31, until the expiration or
earlier termination of the Servicing Agreement, at which time this Amendment No. 2 shall also
terminate. Either party may elect not to extend this Amendment No. 2 by giving written notice
to the other party at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration or termination, as the case
may be, of either the Initial Term or the current renewal term of this Amendment 2.

SIGNATURE PAGE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWS 

5 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 2 to be executed as of
the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

MERRILL LYNCH CREDIT CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Lawrence P. Washington

Name: Lawrence P. Washington 

Title: Chairman and President 

CENDANT MORTGAGE CORPORATION: 

By:

/s/ Robert J. Smith 

Name: Robert J. Smith 

Title: Senior Vice President 

6 

</EX-10.71>

<EX-10.74>
 15
 y26027exv10w74.htm
 EX-10.74: RESOLUTION OF COMPENSATION COMMITTEE

EX-10.74 

Exhibit 10.74 

RESOLUTIONS OF THE 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 
OF PHH CORPORATION 

November 22, 2006 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6(c) of the PHH Corporation 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan, PHH
Corporation (the  Corporation ) has established and maintains the PHH Corporation 2005 Management
Incentive Plan, PHH Mortgage 2005 Management Incentive Plan, and PHH Arval Incentive Plan
(Effective January 1, 2005) (each a  2005 Incentive Plan  and collectively the  2005 Incentive
Plans 

WHEREAS, due to the delay in completion of the audit of the Corporation s consolidated
financial statements for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, the Compensation Committee was
unable to determine definitively the extent to which each of the 2005 Incentive Plans  Pre-Tax
Income After Minority Interest ( PTIAMI ) 2005 performance targets had been satisfied prior to the
date on which payments under the 2005 Incentive Plans would ordinarily be made;

WHEREAS, pending final determination of PTIAMI for 2005, the Compensation Committee, by
resolutions dated April 21, 2006, April 27, 2006 and June 7, 2006, authorized, and the Corporation
subsequently paid, interim bonus payment under the 2005 Incentive Plans (the  Interim Payment )
equal to 75% of the 100% target under each 2005 Incentive Plan to each active participant who was
not one of the Named Executive Officers of the Corporation ( NEO s 

WHEREAS, the audit of the Corporation s consolidated financial statements for its fiscal year
ended December 31, 2005, has advanced to the extent that the Compensation Committee can now
determine the extent to which the PTIAMI performance targets for 2005 have been satisfied; and

WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee has determined that certain adjustments to PTIAMI for 2005
are appropriate and equitable for 2005 Incentive Plan participants who are not NEO s in order to
reflect certain expenses and restatement adjustments with 2005 carryover effect which are unusual
and non-recurring events affecting the Corporation s consolidated financial statements for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT:

Final 2005 Incentive Plan Payments  

RESOLVED, that the Compensation Committee has determined that, with respect to 2005 Incentive
Plan participants who are not NEO s, it is appropriate and equitable, and in the best interests of
the Corporation, that PTIAMI for purposes of the 2005 Incentive Plans be determined without regard
to certain restatement adjustments with 2005 carryover effect ( Restatement Adjustments ) which are
unusual and non-recurring events affecting the Corporation s consolidated financial statements for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005;

RESOLVED, that, based on the Compensation Committee s review and approval of the calculations of
Performance Measures vs. Target for the 2005 Incentive Plans which are attached hereto and
incorporated herein as  Exhibit A , the Compensation Committee has determined that the PTIAMI
for 2005 and the applicable 2005 Incentive Plan Payout Percentages for 2005 are as follows:

Non NEOs (with Restatement  

2005 Incentive Plan  

Adjustments)  
       
      PTIAMI  
       
      Payout Percentages  

Mortgage

$ ***  million

***  

Fleet

$ ***  million

***  

Corporate

$ ***  million

***  

NEOs (without Restatement  

2005 Incentive Plan  

Adjustments)  
       
      PTIAMI  
       
      Payout Percentages  

Mortgage (M. Danahy, J. Suter)

$ ***  million

***  

$ ***  million   Corp 

50% Fleet   50% Corporate (G. Kilroy)

$ ***  million   Fleet

***  

Corporate (T. Edwards, W. Brown, N.
Cashen)

$ ***  million

***  

RESOLVED, that the Compensation Committee hereby authorizes and approves payment of cash
bonuses under the 2005 Incentive Plans in accordance with the foregoing Payout Percentages, less
the amount of any Interim Payments previously made to each participant, as set forth on  Exhibit
B  which is attached hereto and incorporated herein;

Enabling Resolution  

RESOLVED, that the appropriate officers and employees of the Corporation are hereby
authorized, empowered, and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to execute,
acknowledge, and deliver any and all documents, instruments, and papers, to give all notices that
may be required or appropriate, and to take or cause to be taken such actions as may be determined
to be necessary, appropriate or advisable to carry out the intent or purposes of all of the
foregoing resolutions, such determination to be evidenced conclusively by the execution and
delivery of such documents or the taking of such actions.

***  INDICATES MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN OMITTED AND FOR WHICH CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED. ALL SUCH OMITTED MATERIAL HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO RULE 24b-2 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED.

</EX-10.74>

<EX-12>
 16
 y26027exv12.htm
 EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12 

Exhibit 12 

PHH Corporation and Subsidiaries 

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

(Dollars in Millions) 

(1)  
     
    Consists of interest expense on all indebtedness (including
    amortization of deferred financing costs) and the portion of
    operating lease rental expense that is representative of the
    interest factor. 

(2)  
     
    The ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended
    December 31, 2002 is less than one-to-one due a
    $29 million deficiency as a result of the $100 million
    goodwill impairment charge recorded in that period. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 17
 y26027exv21.htm
 EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21 

Exhibit 21 

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

As of December 31, 2005 

Jurisdiction of  

Incorporation  

Name of Subsidiary  
       
      or Formation  

Atrium Insurance Corporation

NY 

Axiom Financial, LLC

UT 

Canadian Lease Management Ltd. 

Canada 

Cendant Mortgage, LLC

DE 

Century 21 Mortgage Corporation

MA 

Chesapeake Funding LLC

DE 

Coldwell Banker Home Loans, LLC

DE 

Coldwell Banker Mortgage Corporation

MA 

D. L. Peterson Trust

DE 

Dealers Holding, Inc. 

MD 

Driversshield.com FS Corp. 

NY 

Edenton Motors, Inc. 

MD 

ERA Home Loans, LLC

DE 

ERA Mortgage Corporation

MA 

FAH Company, Inc. 

DE 

First Fleet Corporation

MA 

First Fleet Master Titling Trust

DE 

Haddonfield Holding Corporation

DE 

Highlands Vehicle Solutions, Inc. 

MD 

Instamortgage.com Corporation

MD 

J.W. Geckle Trust

MD 

JHH Partnership

MD 

Landover Mortgage, LLC

WA 

Logic Leasing, Inc. 

MA 

Long Island Mortgage Group, Inc. (dba Corcoran Capital;
    L Argent Funding Consultants; Home Key Mortgage Bankers;
    Royal Capital; Manhattan Island Capital; Long Island Mortgage
    Resources; NYC Capital; Madison Avenue Capital)

NY 

MortgageSave.com Corporation

MA 

NE Moves Mortgage, LLC

MA 

North Florida Mortgage Services, LLC

DE 

PHH (Bermuda) Holdings Ltd. 

Bermuda 

PHH Auto Finance LLC

MD 

PHH Broker Partner Corporation

MD 

PHH Canadian Holding, Inc. 

DE 

PHH Caribbean Leasing, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Charitable Trust

U.K. 

PHH Continental Leasing, LLC

MD 

PHH Corner Leasing, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Corporate Services, Inc. 

DE 

PHH CPA, Inc. 

MD 

Jurisdiction of  

Incorporation  

Name of Subsidiary  
       
      or Formation  

PHH de Brasil Paricopaceos Ltda. 

Brazil 

PHH Financial Services LLC

MD 

PHH Foundation, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Home Loans, LLC (dba Sunbelt Lending Services; Hamera
    Home Loans; ERA Home Loans; Burnet Home Loans; Coldwell Banker
    Home Loans; Cendant Mortgage; First Capital; Coastal Funding)

DE 

PHH Leasing of Canada Ltd

Canada 

PHH Market Leasing, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Milford Leasing, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Mortgage Capital LLC

DE 

PHH Mortgage Corporation

NJ 

PHH Mortgage Services Corporation

MD 

PHH National Leasing, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Page Leasing, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Personallease Corporation

MD 

PHH Power Leasing, Inc. 

MD 

PHH Preferred Mortgage, LLC (dba Preferred Mortgage
    Services)

DE 

PHH Services B.V

Netherlands 

PHH Solutions and Technologies, LLC

DE 

PHH St. Paul Leasing, Inc. 

DE 

PHH Vehicle Management Services Group LLC

DE 

PHH Vehicle Management Services, Inc. 

Canada 

PHH Vehicle Management Services, LLC (dba PHH Arval)

DE 

PHH VMS Subsidiary Corporation

DE 

PHH/ Paymentech LLC

DE 

Preferred Mortgage Group, LLC

VA 

Raven Funding LLC

DE 

RMR Financial, LLC (dba Princeton Capital)

CA 

Speedy Title and Appraisal Review Services, LLC

DE 

Terrapin Funding LLC

DE 

VMS Holdings LLC

DE 

Williamsburg Motors, Inc. 

MD 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 18
 y26027exv23.htm
 EX-23: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-23 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
Statements
Nos.  333-46434  and
 333-45373  on
Form  S-3  and
Registration Statement
Nos.  333-122477, 
 333-123055  and
 333-128144  on
Form  S-8  of our
reports dated November 22, 2006 (which report on the
consolidated financial statements expressed an unqualified
opinion and includes explanatory paragraphs related to the
adoption of the fair-value method of accounting for stock-based
compensation and the consolidation provisions for variable
interest entities during fiscal 2003 discussed in Note 1,
the restatement of the 2004 and 2003 consolidated financial
statements discussed in Note 2, and the uncertainty about
the Company s ability to comply with certain of its
financing agreement covenants relating to the timely filing of
the Company s financial statements which raises substantial
doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern discussed
in Note 28, which report on the financial statement
schedules expressed an unqualified opinion and which report on
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
disclaimed an opinion on management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting because of a scope limitation and expressed
an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting because of material
weaknesses), appearing in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of PHH
Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

November 22, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.I.1>
 19
 y26027exv31wiw1.htm
 EX-31.I.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.I.1 

Exhibit 31(i).1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Terence W. Edwards, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of PHH
Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e))  and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that
    has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
    reporting. 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting, which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

By:  
     
    /s/ Terence W. Edwards  

Terence W. Edwards 

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: November 22, 2006

</EX-31.I.1>

<EX-31.I.2>
 20
 y26027exv31wiw2.htm
 EX-31.I.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.I.2 

Exhibit 31(i).2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Clair M. Raubenstine, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of PHH
Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e))  and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that
    has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
    reporting. 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting, which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

By:  
     
    /s/ Clair M. Raubenstine  

Clair M. Raubenstine 

Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

Date: November 22, 2006

</EX-31.I.2>

<EX-32.1>
 21
 y26027exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted by
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned officer of PHH Corporation (the  Company )
hereby certifies, to such officer s knowledge, that:

(i) the Annual Report on
    Form  10-K  of the
    Company for the annual period ended December 31, 2005 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(ii) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company. 

By:  
     
    /s/ Terence W. Edwards  

Terence W. Edwards 

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: November 22, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to PHH Corporation and will
be retained by PHH Corporation and furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely to
accompany the Report pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, and is not being filed for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and is not to be incorporated by reference into any
filing of PHH Corporation, whether made before or after the date
hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such
filing.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 22
 y26027exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted by
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned officer of PHH Corporation (the  Company )
hereby certifies, to such officer s knowledge, that:

(i) the Annual Report on
    Form  10-K  of the
    Company for the annual period ended December 31, 2005 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(ii) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company. 

By:  
     
    /s/ Clair M. Raubenstine  

Clair M. Raubenstine 

Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

Date: November 22, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to PHH Corporation and will
be retained by PHH Corporation and furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely to
accompany the Report pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, and is not being filed for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and is not to be incorporated by reference into any
filing of PHH Corporation, whether made before or after the date
hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such
filing.

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.2>
 23
 y26027exv99w2.htm
 EX-99.2: GLOSSARY OF TERMS

EX-99.2 

Exhibit 99.2 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 

Defined below are certain terms used in PHH Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2005:

Terms  
       
      Definitions  

Capitalized loan servicing portfolio

The unpaid principal balance of the loans in the servicing
    portfolio associated with MSRs. 

Capitalized servicing multiple

The capitalized servicing rate divided by the weighted-average
    servicing fee. 

Capitalized servicing rate

The ratio of the MSR book value to the unpaid principal balance
    of the underlying capitalized loan servicing portfolio. 

Closed-end lease

A type of operating lease in which the Company bears all of the
    vehicle s residual value risk. 

Forward loan sales commitment

An obligation to sell a mortgage-backed security at a specified
    price in the future. Its value increases as mortgage rates rise. 

Freestanding derivatives

Derivatives not specifically designated in a Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  hedging
    relationship. 

Implied volatility

Volatility implied by the market price of a derivative. The
    Company s OAS model requires a volatility assumption in
    order to project interest rate paths. The volatility assumption
    effectively places a band around the potential interest rate
    movements from one period to the next used in interest rate
    modeling. Changes in implied volatility can have a significant
    impact on the value of the Company s MSRs. Generally, as
    volatility increases, MSR value decreases. 

Interest rate forward contract

An obligation to purchase or deliver financial instruments to a
    specific counterparty at a future date based upon an underlying
    debt security. An interest rate forward contract increases in
    value as the interest rate on the underlying instrument declines. 

Interest rate futures contract

An obligation to purchase or deliver financial instruments at a
    future date based upon an underlying debt security (such as a
    U.S. Treasury or a Government National Mortgage Association
    ( Ginnie Mae ) mortgage-backed security). Interest
    rate futures contracts increase in value as the interest rate on
    the underlying instrument declines. 

Interest rate swap contract

An agreement to exchange interest rate payments on an underlying
    notional amount. 

Loan servicing portfolio

The total unpaid principal balance of loans serviced by the
    Company. Includes the capitalized loan servicing portfolio as
    well as the subservicing portfolio. 

Mark-to-market

The recording of changes in value resulting from market value
    changes of the underlying asset or liability. 

Mortgage forward contracts

An obligation to buy a mortgage-backed security at a specified
    price in the future. Sometimes referred to as  to be
    announced  securities ( TBAs ). Mortgage forward
    contracts increase in value as interest rates decline. 

Mortgage servicing right ( MSR )

The right to receive a portion of the interest coupon and fees
    collected from the mortgagor for performing specified mortgage
    servicing activities, which consist of collecting loan payments,
    remitting principal and interest payments to investors, holding
    escrow funds for payment of mortgage- related expenses such as
    property taxes and insurance, and otherwise administering a
    mortgage loan servicing portfolio. 

Terms  
       
      Definitions  

Non-conforming loans

Loans that do not conform to the requirements of the Federal
    National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ), the
    Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac )
    or Ginnie Mae. Generally, the securitization of non-conforming
    loans require some form of credit enhancement, such as
    over-collateralization, senior-subordinated structures, primary
    mortgage insurance and/or private surety guarantees. 

Option adjusted spread ( OAS )

The spread over the risk-free rate that would be required to
    compensate for the uncertainty associated with the underlying
    cash flows. The servicing cash flows are discounted back to
    present value using the forward London Interbank Offered Rate
    ( LIBOR ) plus an OAS to arrive at the Company s
    estimate of the present value of future expected cash flows. 

Options on forward contracts

Rights to buy or sell the underlying financial instruments such
    as mortgage-backed securities. 

Options on futures contracts

Rights to buy or sell the underlying financial instruments such
    as mortgage-backed securities, generally through an exchange. 

Options on Treasuries

Rights to buy or sell U.S. Treasury securities
    ( Treasuries ) at specified prices in the future. 

Options on swap contracts

Rights to enter into predetermined interest rate swaps at a
    future date (sometimes referred to as  swaptions ). In
    a receiver swaption, the fixed rate is received and the floating
    rate is paid upon exercise of the option. Receiver swaptions
    generally increase in value as interest rates fall. Conversely,
    in a payor swaption, the fixed rate is paid and the floating
    rate is received upon the exercise of the option. Payor
    swaptions generally increase in value as interest rates rise. 

Open-end lease

A type of operating lease in which the Company s client
    bears substantially all of the vehicle s residual value
    risk. 

Prepayment speed

The estimated rate at which mortgagors pay off their loans ahead
    of schedule. Generally, as prepayment speed increases, MSR value
    decreases. 

Principal-only swaps

Agreements to exchange the principal amount of underlying
    securities. Principal-only swaps are economically similar to
    purchasing principal-only securities and increase in value as
    interest rates decline. 

Retained interests

Ongoing economic interests (such as MSRs) in loans that have
    been sold or securitized. 

Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ( RESPA )

A consumer protection statute that restricts the payment of fees
    or other consideration for the referral of real estate
    settlement services, including mortgage loans. Also includes
    rules and regulations related to taxation, vicarious liability
    and accounting. 

Subservicing portfolio

The unpaid principal balance of the loans in the Company s
    loan servicing portfolio for which the Company is paid a
    contractual fee for performing servicing functions. The Company
    does not own the related MSR. 

Treasury future

An obligation to purchase or deliver a Treasury at a specified
    price in the future. Treasury futures increase in value as the
    interest rate on the underlying Treasury declines. 

Warehoused loans

Loans that have been funded and are being held until sold to an
    investor. Also may be referred to as loans held for sale or
    inventory loans. 

Terms  
       
      Definitions  

Weighted-average servicing fee

The average fee earned by the Company for servicing loans for an
    investor. The weighted-average servicing fee is generally
    represented by a percentage (or basis points) of the unpaid
    principal balance of the underlying loans. 

Yield curve

A graphical representation of the relationship between expected
    long-term and short-term interest rates. The current yield curve
    is used as a key assumption in projecting expected cash flows
    from mortgage servicing activities. Changes in the shape of the
    yield curve can have a significant impact on MSR values.
    Generally, a flattening of the yield curve reduces MSR value
    while a steepening of the yield curve increases MSR value. 

</EX-99.2>

