<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061122_10-K_edgar_data_356309_0001104659-06-077505_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3387900</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>330969</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2099703</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>73</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-077505.hdr.sgml : 20061122
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061122171037
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-077505
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061122
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061122

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NEW JERSEY RESOURCES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000356309
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION [4924]
		IRS NUMBER:				222376465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08359
		FILM NUMBER:		061237070

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1415 WYCKOFF RD
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 1468
		CITY:			WALL
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07719
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9089381494

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1350 CAMPUS PKWY
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 1468
		CITY:			WALL
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07719

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GFj+9UEeQnv1XkV81dp4QJVKPZoNvKqyojY2kGNOU2knpf8S68n3G6WOytVyWgKA
 xcSu1HMXGXNME97W+UCIyw==

 0001104659-06-077505.txt : 20061122

10-K
 1
 a06-23841_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

   x    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER
30, 2006   

  OR  

   o    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
15(d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

   FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM
             
TO                

   Commission file number 1-8359   

   NEW JERSEY
RESOURCES CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:  

Common Stock - $2.50 Par Value  

New
  York Stock Exchange   

(Title of each class)  

(Name of each
  exchange on which registered)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of
the Act:  

   None   

  Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  

   YES:    x              No:  o  

  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   o  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):  

   Large accelerated filer:    x          Accelerated
filer:  o          Non-accelerated
filer:  o  

  The aggregate market value of
the Registrant s Common Stock held by nonaffiliates was $1,253,111,780 based on the closing price of $45.25 per share on March 31,
2006.  

  The number of shares
outstanding of $2 . 50 par value Common Stock as of November 20,
2006 was 27,678,310.  

   DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

  Portions
of the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareowners to be held January 24, 2007, to be filed on or about December 22,
2006, are incorporated by reference into Part I and  Part III of this report. 

New Jersey Resources     

   TABLE OF
CONTENTS     

Page   

Information Concerning
  Forward-Looking Statements   

1  

PART I    

ITEM 1.    

Business   

3  

Business Segments   

4  

Natural Gas Distribution   

4  

General   

4  

Throughput   

5  

Seasonality of Gas Revenues   

5  

Gas Supply   

6  

Regulation and Rates   

8  

Competition   

9  

Energy Services   

9  

Retail and Other   

11  

Environment   

11  

Employee Relations   

12  

ITEM 1A.    

Risk Factors   

13  

ITEM 1B.    

Unresolved Staff Comments   

20  

ITEM 2.    

Properties   

20  

ITEM 3.    

Legal Proceedings   

21  

ITEM. 4.    

Submission of Matters to a
  Vote of Security Holders   

23  

ITEM 4A.    

Directors and Executive
  Officers of the Registrant   

24  

PART II    

ITEM 5.    

Market for the Registrant s
  Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters   

27  

ITEM 6.    

Selected Financial Data   

28  

ITEM 7.    

Management s Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

31  

ITEM 7A.    

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

54  

ITEM 8.    

Financial Statements and
  Supplementary Data   

58  

Management s Report on
  Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

58  

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm   

61  

ITEM 9.    

Changes in and Disagreements
  with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

102  

ITEM 9A.    

Controls and Procedures   

102  

ITEM 9B.    

Other Information   

103  

PART III    

ITEM 10.    

Directors and Executive
  Officers of the Registrant   

104  

ITEM 11.    

Executive Compensation   

104  

ITEM 12.    

Security Ownership of
  Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   

104  

ITEM 13.    

Certain Relationships and
  Related Transactions   

104  

ITEM 14.    

Principal Accountant Fees
  and Services   

104  

PART IV   

ITEM 15.    

Exhibits, Financial
  Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K   

104  

Index to Financial Statement
  Schedules   

105  

Signatures   

107  

Exhibit Index   

108  

i  

INFORMATION
CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS     

Certain statements contained in this report,
including, without limitation, statements as to management expectations and
beliefs presented in Item 1. Business, under the captions  Natural Gas
Distribution General; Gas Supply; Regulation and Rates  and  Environment,  and
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  and in Part II including  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
Item 7, and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
in Item 7A are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements
can also be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as  may, 
 intend,   expect,   believe  or  continue  or comparable terminology and are
made based upon management s expectations and beliefs concerning future
developments and their potential effect upon New Jersey Resources Corporation
(NJR or the Company). There can be no assurance that future developments will
be in accordance with management s expectations or that the effect of future
developments on the Company will be those anticipated by management.  

  The Company cautions
readers that the assumptions that form the basis for forward-looking statements
regarding customer growth, customer usage, financial condition, results of
operations, cash flows, capital requirements, market risk and other matters for
fiscal 2007 and thereafter include many factors that are beyond the Company s
ability to control or estimate precisely, such as estimates of future market
conditions, the behavior of other market participants and changes in the debt
and equity capital markets. The factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from NJR s expectations include, but are not limited to those
discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A, as well as the following:  

              weather
and economic conditions; 

              demographic
changes in the New Jersey Natural Gas (NJNG) service territory; 

              the   rate of NJNG customer growth; 

              volatility
of natural gas commodity prices and its impact on customer usage, NJR Energy
Services  (NJRES) operations and on the Company s risk management efforts; 

              changes
in rating agency requirements and/or credit ratings and their effect on
availability and cost of capital to the Company; 

              commercial
and wholesale credit risks, including creditworthiness of customers and
counterparties; 

              the
impact of governmental regulation (including the regulation of rates); 

              fluctuations
in   energy-related commodity prices; 

              conversion
activity and other marketing efforts; 

              actual
energy usage of NJNG s customers; 

              the
pace of deregulation of retail gas markets; 

              access
to adequate supplies of natural gas; 

              the
regulatory and pricing policies of federal and state regulatory agencies; 

              changes
due to legislation at the federal and state level; 

              the
availability of an adequate number of appropriate counterparties in the
wholesale energy trading market; 

1     

INFORMATION CONCERNING
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  (Continued)   

sufficient
liquidity in the wholesale energy trading market and continued access to the
capital markets; 

              the
disallowance of recovery of environmental-related   expenditures
and other regulatory changes; 

              environmental-related
and other litigation; 

              the
effects and impacts of inflation on NJR and its subsidiaries operations; 

              change
in accounting pronouncements issued by the appropriate standard setting bodies;
and 

              terrorist
attacks or threatened attacks on energy facilities or unrelated energy
companies. 

  While the Company periodically reassesses material
trends and uncertainties affecting the Company s results of operations and
financial condition in connection with its preparation of management s
discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition
contained in its Quarterly and Annual Reports, the Company does not, by
including this statement, assume any obligation to review or revise any
particular forward-looking statement referenced herein in light of future
events.  

2  

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

   ITEM 1. BUSINESS     

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE      

  New Jersey Resources
Corporation (NJR or the Company) is a New Jersey corporation formed in 1982
pursuant to a corporate reorganization. The Company is an energy services
holding company providing retail and wholesale energy services to customers in
New Jersey, in states from the Gulf Coast to New England, and Canada. The
Company is an exempt holding company under section 1263 of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005. NJR s subsidiaries and businesses include:  

  1)                  New Jersey Natural
Gas (NJNG), a local natural gas distribution company that provides regulated
retail natural gas service to approximately 471,000 residential and commercial
customers in central and northern New Jersey and participates in the off-system
sales and capacity release markets. NJNG is regulated by the New Jersey Board
of Public Utilities (BPU) and comprises the Company s Natural Gas Distribution
segment. 

  2)                  NJR Energy Services
(NJRES) is the Company s principal non-utility subsidiary. It maintains and trades
around a portfolio of physical assets consisting of natural gas storage and
transportation contracts. As well, NJRES provides wholesale energy management
services to other energy companies. NJRES comprises the Company s Energy
Services segment. 

  3)                  The Company also
has a Retail and Other operations segment, which includes the following
companies: 

  a.)               NJR Retail Holdings
(Retail Holdings), formed in November 2001 as an unregulated affiliate to
consolidate the Company s unregulated retail operations. Retail Holdings
includes the operations of NJR Home Services (NJRHS), a company formed in August 1998
to provide heating ventilation and cooling (HVAC) service repair and contract
services.  

  b.)              NJR Capital Services
(Capital), formed as an unregulated affiliate to consolidate the Company s
unregulated energy-related and real estate investments. Capital includes the
following wholly owned subsidiaries: 

  Commercial Realty   Resources (CR R), a
company formed in May 1966, which holds and develops commercial real estate.  

  NJR Investment, a company formed in October 2000
to make certain energy-related equity investments.  

  NJR Energy Holdings,
including NJR Energy, which invests primarily in energy-related ventures
through its subsidiary, NJNR Pipeline (Pipeline) which holds the Company s 5.53
percent interest in Iroquois Gas and Transmission System, LP (Iroquois).  

  c.)               NJR Service (Service),
an unregulated company formed in August 2000 as a wholly owned subsidiary
of NJR to provide shared administrative services, including corporate
communications, financial and administrative, internal audit, legal, human
resources and technology for NJR and all subsidiaries of NJR. 

3     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  (Continued)   

BUSINESS SEGMENTS      

  The Company operates within three primary business
segments: Natural Gas Distribution, Energy Services and Retail and Other.  

  The Natural Gas Distribution
segment consists of regulated energy and off-system, capacity and storage
management operations. The Energy Services segment consists of unregulated
wholesale energy operations. The Retail and Other segment consists of appliance
repair, sales and installation services, commercial real estate development,
investment and other corporate activities.  

    NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION      

   General     

  NJNG provides natural gas service to approximately
471,000 customers.   Its service
territory encompasses 1,436 square miles, covering 104 municipalities with an
estimated population of 1.3 million people.  

  NJNG s service territory is in New Jersey s Monmouth
and Ocean counties and parts of Morris and Middlesex counties. It is primarily
suburban, with a wide range of cultural and recreational activities and
highlighted by approximately 100 miles of New Jersey seacoast. It is in
proximity to New York City, Philadelphia and the metropolitan areas of northern
New Jersey and is accessible through a network of major roadways and mass
transportation. NJNG added 10,159 and 10,435   new customers and added natural gas
heat and other services to another 874 and 929 existing customers in fiscal 2006
and 2005, respectively. This annual growth rate of approximately 2.2 percent is
expected to continue with projected additions of approximately 20,300 new
customers over the next two years. This growth would represent an annual
increase of approximately 1.5 billion
cubic feet (Bcf) in sales to
firm customers and approximately $4.8 million in new utility gross margin, as
calculated under NJNG s Conservation Incentive Program (CIP) tariff, which became
effective October 1, 2006.   

  In assessing the potential for future growth in its
service area, NJNG uses information derived from county and municipal planning
boards that describes housing developments in various stages of approval.
Furthermore, builders in NJNG s service area are surveyed to determine their
development plans for future time periods. NJNG has also periodically engaged
outside consultants to assist in its customer growth projections. In addition
to customer growth through new construction, NJNG s business strategy includes
aggressively pursuing conversions from other fuels, such as electricity and oil. It is estimated that approximately
32   percent of NJNG s projected
customer growth will consist of conversions. NJNG will also continue to pursue
off-system sales and nonpeak sales.  

4     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1.
BUSINESS (Continued)   

Throughput     

  For the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, operating revenues and throughput by
customer class were as follows:  

In fiscal 2006, no single
customer represented more than 10 percent of total NJNG operating revenue.  

   Seasonality of Gas Revenues     

  As a result of the heat-sensitive nature of NJNG s
residential customer base, therm sales are significantly affected by weather
conditions. Specifically, customer demand substantially increases during the
winter months when natural gas is used for heating purposes. Weather conditions
directly influence the volume of natural gas delivered. The relative
measurement of the impact of weather is in degree days. Degree-day data is used
to estimate amounts of energy required to maintain comfortable indoor
temperature levels based on each day s average temperature. A degree-day is the
measure of the variation in the weather based on the extent to which the
average daily temperature falls below 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Each degree of
temperature below 65 degrees Fahrenheit is counted as one heating degree day.
Normal heating degree-days are based on a 20 year average, calculated based
upon three reference areas representative of NJNG s service territory.   

  For reporting periods though September 30, 2006,
the impact of weather on the level and timing of NJNG s revenues, gross margin
and cash flows had been affected by a weather-normalization clause (WNC),
which provided for a revenue adjustment if the weather varied by more than
one-half of 1 percent from normal. However, the WNC did not capture declines in
customer usage. The accumulated adjustment from one heating season (i.e.,
October-May) was billed or credited to customers in subsequent periods.   

  Beginning in October 2006, NJNG s revenues, gross
margin and cash flows will be affected by the CIP, which decouples the link
between customer usage and NJNG s utility gross margin, allowing NJNG to
encourage its customers to conserve energy. During the three-year term of the
pilot, the existing WNC would be suspended and replaced with the CIP tracking
mechanism, which addresses utility gross margin variations related to both
weather and customer usage .  Recovery of
such utility gross margin is subject to additional conditions including an
earnings test and an evaluation of Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS)-related
savings achieved. Under the CIP agreement, if NJNG does not file   

5     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1.
BUSINESS (Continued)   

for a rate
review with the BPU within two years, the return on equity for the earnings
test will decline from 10.5 percent to 10.25 percent. For additional
information regarding the CIP, see  Management s Discussion
and Analysis Natural Gas Distribution Operations  and  Note 4. Regulation  in the accompanying Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

   Gas Supply     

   Firm Natural Gas Supplies   

  NJNG s gas supply portfolio
consists of long-term (over seven months), winter-term (for the five winter
months) and short-term contracts. In fiscal 2006, NJNG purchased gas from 92   suppliers
under contracts ranging from one day to four years. In fiscal 2006, NJNG purchased approximately 10.2 percent of
its natural gas from Alberta Northeast Gas Limited. No other supplier provided
more than 10 percent of NJNG s natural gas supplies. NJNG believes the loss of
any one or all of these suppliers would not have a material adverse impact on
its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. NJNG believes that
its supply strategy should adequately meet its expected firm load over the next
several years.  

   Firm Transportation and Storage Capacity   

  In order to take delivery of firm natural gas
supplies, which ensures the ability to reliably service its customers, NJNG
maintains agreements for firm transportation and storage capacity with several
interstate pipeline companies. NJNG receives natural gas at eight city gate
stations located in Middlesex, Morris and Passaic counties in New Jersey.  

  The
pipeline companies that provide firm transportation service to NJNG s city gate
stations, the maximum daily deliverability of that capacity in dekatherms
(dths) and the contract expiration dates are as follows:  

The pipeline companies that provide firm
transportation service to NJNG and supply the above pipelines are ANR Pipeline
Company, Tennessee Gas Pipeline, Dominion Transmission Corporation and Columbia
Gulf Transmission Company.  

6     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1.
BUSINESS (Continued)   

In addition, NJNG has storage
and related transportation contracts that provide additional maximum daily
deliverability of 102,941 dths from storage fields in its Northeast market
area. The storage suppliers, the maximum daily deliverability of that storage
capacity and the contract expiration dates are as follows:  

NJNG also has storage
contracts, maximum daily deliverability and contract expiration dates as
follows:  

Both Dominion and Stagecoach
utilize NJNG s transportation contracts to transport gas from their storage
fields to NJNG s city gate.  

   Peaking Supply   

  To manage its winter peak day
demand NJNG maintains two liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities. See Item 2.  Properties NJNG  for additional information regarding the LNG
storage facilities. NJNG presently has LNG storage deliverability of 150,000
dths per day, which represents approximately 20 percent of its estimated peak
day sendout.  

   Basic Gas Supply
Service   

  Wholesale natural gas prices
remain volatile. NJNG has mitigated the impact of these volatile price changes
on customers through the use of hedging instruments, which are part of its
financial risk management program, its storage incentive program and its BGSS
clause. BGSS is a BPU-approved clause that requires all New Jersey natural gas
utilities to make an annual filing by each June 1 for review of BGSS rates
and to request a potential rate change to be effective the following October 1.
The structure also allows each natural gas utility to provisionally increase
residential and small commercial customer BGSS rates up to 5 percent on December 1
and February 1 on a self-implementing basis, after proper notice and BPU
action on the June filing. Such increases are subject to subsequent BPU
review and final   approval. Decreases in the BGSS
tariff can be implemented upon five days notice to the BPU.  

  On November 10, 2005,
NJNG filed for a 23.2 percent price increase to an average residential
customer, which was provisionally approved and became effective on December 14,
2005. This   

7     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1.
BUSINESS (Continued)   

increase was necessary due to higher wholesale natural
gas prices and was subject to refund with interest.  

  During January and March 2006, NJNG filed
supporting documentation with the BPU for a bill credit to its residential and
small commercial sales customers for the period February 1, 2006 through April 30,
2006, as a result of lower wholesale natural gas prices. The bill credits,
which temporarily reduced the BGSS tariff component, provided a benefit of
approximately $28.6 million to NJNG s residential and small commercial customers
during that period.  

  On June 1, 2006, NJNG filed for a reduction to
the BGSS rate for residential and small commercial customers, due to the
continued decrease in wholesale natural gas prices. The impact to the average
residential sales customer s bill is a decrease of approximately 6.6 percent.
This was approved by the BPU on a provisional basis on September 27, 2006.
NJNG also credited approximately $22.5 million to residential and small
commercial sales customers in September 2006.  

  On October 25, 2006, NJNG filed supporting documentation
with the BPU for a self-implementing BGSS rate reduction to be effective November
1, 2006, which will lower residential and small commercial customers  bills by
approximately 4 percent.  

  This decrease was initiated due to the continued
reduction in wholesale natural gas prices subsequent to NJNG s November 10,
2005 BGSS filing.  

   Future Natural Gas Supplies   

  NJNG expects to meet the
natural gas requirements for existing and projected firm customers into the
foreseeable future. If NJNG s long-term natural gas requirements change, NJNG
would renegotiate and restructure its contract portfolio components to better
match the changing needs of its customers.  

   Regulation and Rates     

   State   

  NJNG is subject to the jurisdiction of the BPU with
respect to a wide range of matters, such as rates, the issuance of securities,
the adequacy of service, the manner of keeping its accounts and records, the
sufficiency of natural gas supply, pipeline safety and the sale or encumbrance
of its properties.  

  See  Note 4. Regulation 
in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding NJNG s rate proceedings.  

   Federal   

  The Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC) regulates rates charged by interstate pipeline companies for
the transportation and storage of natural gas. This affects NJNG s agreements
for the purchase of such services with several interstate pipeline companies.
Any costs associated with these services are recoverable through the BGSS.  

8     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
(Continued)   

Competition     

  Although its franchises are nonexclusive, NJNG is not
currently subject to competition from other natural gas distribution utilities
with regard to the transportation of natural gas in its service territory. Due
to significant distances between NJNG s current large industrial customers and
the nearest interstate natural gas pipelines, as well as the availability of
its transportation tariff, NJNG currently does not believe it has significant
exposure to the risk that its distribution system will be bypassed. Competition
does exist from suppliers of oil, coal, electricity and propane. At the present
time, however, natural gas enjoys an advantage over alternate fuels in over 95
percent of new construction due to its efficiency and reliability. As
deregulation of the natural gas industry continues, prices will be determined
by market supply and demand but, although NJNG believes natural gas will remain
competitive with alternate fuels, no assurance can be given in this regard.  

  In February 1999, the Electric Discount and
Energy Competition Act (EDECA), which provides the framework for the
restructuring of New Jersey s energy markets, became law. In March 2001,
the BPU issued a written order that approved a stipulation agreement among
various parties to fully open NJNG s residential markets to competition,
restructure its rates to segregate its BGSS and delivery (i.e., transportation)
prices as required by EDECA and expand an incentive for residential and small
commercial customers to switch to transportation service. On September 30,
2006, NJNG had 8,594 residential and
4,280 commercial   and
industrial customers utilizing the transportation service. Based on its current
and projected level of transportation customers, NJNG expects to use its
existing firm transportation and storage capacity to fully meet its firm sales
contract obligations.  

  In December 2000, the BPU issued a written order
that resolved a customer account services proceeding. During the customer
account services proceedings, the BPU noted that issues relating to the
provision of services, such as metering and competitive billing, would be
reviewed in the future. Based on the belief that there is little interest among
third-party suppliers in competitive customer account services, the BPU staff
recommended that further review be deferred until the competitive energy market
is more fully developed.  

  In January 2002, the BPU
issued an order stating that BGSS could be provided by suppliers other than the
state s natural gas utilities, but BGSS should be provided by the state s
natural gas utilities until further BPU action. No additional action has been
taken by the BPU subsequent to its initial order in January 2002.  

    ENERGY SERVICES      

  NJRES provides unregulated wholesale energy services,
including base load natural gas, peaking and balancing services, utilizing
physical assets it controls, as well as 
asset management services to customers in states from the Gulf Coast and
Mid-Continent to New England and Canada.  

  NJRES has built a portfolio of customers including
local distribution companies, industrial companies, electric generators and
retail aggregators. Sales to these customers have allowed NJRES to leverage its
transportation and storage capacity and manage sales to these customers in an
aggregate fashion. This strategy provides customers with better pricing and
allows NJRES to extract more value from its portfolio of storage and
transportation capacity. In addition, these customers have   

9     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1.
BUSINESS (Continued)   

come to rely on NJRES  reliability, which is, in part,
due to the ability to deliver from a firm supply source.  

  NJRES also focuses on creating value from
underutilized natural gas assets, which are typically amassed through
contractual rights to natural gas transportation and storage capacity. NJRES
has developed a portfolio of storage and transportation capacity in the
Northeast, Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, Appalachia and Eastern Canada. These
assets become more valuable when prices change between these areas and across
time periods. NJRES seeks to optimize this process on a daily basis as market
conditions change by evaluating all the natural gas supplies, transportation
and opportunities to which it has access, to find the most profitable
alternative for serving its various commitments. This enables NJRES to capture
geographic pricing differences across these various regions as delivered
natural gas prices change. NJRES  gross margin is defined as natural gas revenues
and management fees less natural gas costs and fixed-demand costs.  

  In a similar manner, NJRES participates in natural gas
storage transactions where it seeks to identify pricing differences that occur
over time, as prices for future delivery periods at many locations are readily
available. NJRES generates gross margin by locking in the differential between
purchasing natural gas at the lowest current or future price and, in a related
transaction, selling that natural gas at the highest current or future price,
all within the constraints of its contracts and credit policies. Through the
use of transportation and storage services, NJRES is able to generate gross
margin through pricing differences that occur over the duration of time the
assets are held.  

  NJRES  portfolio management customers include
nonaffiliated   utilities and electric generation
plants. Services provided by NJRES include optimization of underutilized
natural gas assets and basic gas supply functions. Revenue is customarily
derived by a combination of a base service fee and incentive-based
arrangements.  

  In fiscal 2006, NJRES had two customers, Hess
Corporation and Washington Gas Light, who each represented more than 10 percent
of its total revenue. Management believes that the loss of these customers
would not have a material effect on its financial position, results of
operations or cash flows as an adequate number of alternative counterparties
exist.  

  Generally, NJRES  contracts are designated as a hedge
for accounting purposes or meet the  normal purchase normal sale  scope
exception of  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 133 (as amended)  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  (SFAS 133).  Under the normal purchase
normal sale scope exception of SFAS 133 the commodity contract is accounted for
under accrual accounting. For each commodity contract designated as a hedge for
accounting purposes, the fair value of the effective portion of the hedge is
deferred on the balance sheet and recognized in the income statement upon
settlement of the hedged transaction. If the commodity contract does not meet
the normal purchase normal sale scope exception of SFAS 133, or does not
qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes, then it is recorded at fair value
as a component of operating revenues.  

10  

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

   ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Continued)   

RETAIL AND OTHER      

  Retail and Other operations consist primarily of the
following unregulated affiliates: NJRHS, which provides service, sales and
installation of appliances; CR R, which holds and develops commercial real
estate; NJR Energy, an investor in energy-related ventures through its
subsidiary, Pipeline, which consists primarily of its 5.53 percent equity
investment in Iroquois, which is a 412-mile natural gas pipeline from the
New York-Canadian border to Long Island, New York; NJR Investment, which makes
certain energy-related equity investments; and Service Corp., which provides
shared administrative services to the Company and all its subsidiaries.  

  As of September 30, 2006, CR R s real estate
portfolio consisted of 99 acres of undeveloped land in Monmouth and Atlantic
counties and 5 acres of land currently being developed in Monmouth County. In
fiscal 2005, CR R changed its strategy with regard to its 52   acres of undeveloped land in Atlantic County. CR R is
seeking to sell, as opposed to developing, the land. In conjunction with this
change in strategy, CR R estimated its fair value and compared that to its
book value. Accordingly, CR R recognized a pre-tax impairment charge of
$3.9 million in fiscal 2005. See  Note 1. Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets  in the accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements for a discussion of this change in strategy with regard to the
Atlantic County land.  

  CR R expects to sell approximately 15 acres of
land in November 2006 for approximately $1.7 million, which would
result in an anticipated pre-tax gain on sale of approximately $300,000. As
this anticipated transaction will contain a lease-back provision with NJRHS of
certain portions of buildings to be constructed on the acreage, it is expected
that CR R will recognize the pre-tax gain over the 10 year term of the
lease.  

  CR R s 32 acres of undeveloped land in Monmouth
County will continue to be developed as market conditions allow.  

  See  Item 2.
Properties Retail and Other  for additional information regarding
CR R s remaining real estate assets.  

    ENVIRONMENT      

  The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to
legislation and regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect
to environmental matters. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.  

  NJNG is responsible for environmental remediation at
certain manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites which contain contaminated residues
from former gas manufacturing operations that ceased at these sites by the mid-1950s
and in some cases, had been discontinued many years earlier. NJNG is involved
with environmental investigations and remedial actions at these MGP sites. In September 2006,
with the assistance of an outside consulting firm, NJNG updated an
environmental review of the MGP sites, including a review of potential
liability for investigation and remedial action. Based on this review, NJNG
estimated, at the time of the review, that exclusive of any insurance recoveries,
total future expenditures to remediate and monitor the three MGP sites for
which it is responsible, will range from $105.4 million to $174.6 million.  

11     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Continued)   

NJNG s estimate of these liabilities is based upon
known facts, existing technology and enacted laws and regulations in place when
the review was completed. Where available information is sufficient to estimate
the amount of the liability, it is NJNG s policy to accrue the full amount of
such estimate. Where the information is sufficient only to establish a range of
probable liability, and no point within the range is more likely than the
other, it is NJNG s policy to accrue the lower end of the range. Accordingly,
NJNG has recorded an MGP remediation liability and a corresponding Regulatory
asset of $105.4 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, however, actual
costs may differ from these estimates. NJNG will continue to seek recovery of
these costs through its remediation rider, which is described in more detail in
 Item 3 .  Legal
Proceedings . See  Note 13 .  Commitments and Contingent Liabilities  in the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements for information with respect to environmental
matters involving material expenditures for the remediation of the MGP sites.  

  See  Item 3. Legal Proceedings 
for additional information regarding environmental activities.  

  CR R is the owner of certain undeveloped land in
Monmouth and Atlantic counties, New Jersey, with a net book value at September 30,
2006, of $9.6 million. This land is regulated by the provisions of the
Freshwater Wetlands Protection Act (Wetlands Act), which restricts building in
areas defined as  freshwater wetlands  and their transition areas. Based upon a
third-party environmental engineer s delineation of the wetland and transition
areas in accordance with the provisions of the Wetlands Act, CR R will file
for a Letter of Interpretation from the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection (NJDEP) as parcels of land are selected for development. If the
NJDEP reduces the amount of developable yield from CR R s current
estimates, a write-down of the carrying value of the undeveloped land may be
required. Based upon the environmental engineer s revised estimated developable
yield for undeveloped acreage, the Company does not believe that a write-down
of the carrying value of the Monmouth County land was necessary as of September 30,
2006, because the estimated future cash flows from the development of the sites
exceed the current investment in the sites.  

  Although the Company cannot
estimate with certainty future costs of environmental compliance, which, among
other factors, are subject to changes in technology and governmental
regulations, the Company does not presently anticipate any additional
significant future expenditure for compliance with existing environmental laws
and regulations, other than for the remediation of the MGP sites discussed in  Note 13.    Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities  in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements,
which would have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, results of
operations or competitive position of the Company or its subsidiaries.  

   EMPLOYEE RELATIONS     

  The Company and its
subsidiaries had 766 and 770 employees at September 30, 2006   and 2005, respectively. NJNG had 370 and 373 union
employees at September 30, 2006   and 2005,
respectively. NJRHS had 84 and 90 union employees at September 30, 2006   and 2005, respectively. In December 2003, NJNG reached
an agreement with Local 1820 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO, on a 5-year collective bargaining agreement
which provides, among other things, for annual base wage increases of 3.25
percent, 3.5 percent, 3.5 percent, 3.75 percent and 4 percent, effective December 4,
2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In April 2003, NJRHS
reached an agreement with the IBEW on a 4-year collective bargaining
agreement   

12     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Continued)   

which
provided, among other things, for an annual increase in base wages of 2.5
percent. The agreement also provided for annual increase in wages of 3 percent
effective April 3, 2004, 2005 and 2006, with an additional 0.5 percent in  pay
at risk  compensation if certain performance measures were met. The Company
considers its relationship with employees, including those covered by
collective bargaining agreements, to be good.  

   ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS     

When considering any
investment in our securities, investors should consider the following
information, as well as the information contained under the caption  Forward
Looking Statements,  in analyzing our present and future business performance. While
this list is not exhaustive, our management also places no priority or
likelihood based on their description or order of presentation.  

   Financial Risks     

   Ability to access the
financial markets   

  NJR relies on access to both short-term and long-term
credit as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not
satisfied by its cash flow from operations. Any deterioration in NJR s
financial condition could hamper its ability to access the credit markets or
otherwise obtain debt financing. Because certain state regulatory approvals may
be necessary in order for NJNG to incur debt, NJNG may not be able to access
credit markets on a timely basis.  

  External events could
also increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to access
the financial markets. Such external events could include the following:  

             economic
weakness in the United States or in the regions where NJR operates; 

             financial
difficulties of unrelated energy companies; 

             capital
market conditions generally; 

             market
prices for natural gas; 

             the
overall health of the natural gas utility industry; and 

             fluctuations
in interest rates. 

  Restrictions on the ability to
access financial markets could affect management s ability to execute NJR s ,
NJRES  and NJNG s business plan. An inability to access capital may limit the
ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that NJR, or its subsidiaries,
may otherwise rely on for future growth.  

13     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS  (Continued)   

Credit rating downgrades could increase financing
costs, limit access to the financial markets and negatively affect NJNG   

  The debt of NJNG is currently rated by the rating
agencies Moody s Investor Services, Inc. and Standard   Poor s as
investment grade. If such ratings are downgraded below investment grade,
borrowing costs could increase, as will the costs of maintaining certain
contractual relationships.  

  Lower credit ratings could
also adversely affect relationships with state regulators, who may be unwilling
to allow NJNG to pass along increased costs to its natural gas customers.  

   NJRES  ability to conduct its business is dependent
upon the creditworthiness of NJR     

  If the ability of NJR to issue
parental guarantees, or if NJR suffers a reduction in its credit and borrowing
capacity, the business prospects of NJRES, which rely on the creditworthiness
of NJR, would be adversely affected. NJRES would possibly be required to comply
with various margin or other credit enhancement obligations under its trading
and marketing contracts, and it may be unable to continue to trade or be able
to do so only on less favorable terms with certain counterparties.  

   Debt covenants may impact financial condition if
triggered   

  NJR and NJNG s long-term debt
obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and
interest coverage ratios. The failure to comply with any of these covenants
could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result
in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations or the inability to borrow
under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration would cause a material
adverse change in NJR or NJNG s financial condition.  

   An effective system of internal control is not
maintained, leading to material weaknesses in internal control over financial
reporting   

  Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires NJR s management to make an assessment of
the design and effectiveness of internal controls. It also requires NJR s
auditors to audit the design and effectiveness of these controls and to form an
opinion on both management s assessment and the effectiveness of these controls.
Management s ongoing assessment of these controls may identify areas of
weakness in control design or effectiveness, which may lead to the conclusion
that a material deficiency in internal control exists. NJR s auditors may also
identify control deficiencies which may lead to identification of a material
weakness in internal control. While NJR s system of internal controls is
reviewed periodically, there exist inherent limitations to control
effectiveness, including management override, collusion and lapses in judgment.
Should NJR fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls leading to
identification of a material weakness, NJR may not be able to produce reliable
financial statements, which could result in a loss of investor confidence and a
decline in its stock value. In addition, should NJR not be able to produce
reliable financial statements, it could limit NJR s and NJNG s ability to
access the capital markets.  

14     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
(Continued)   

Operational Risks     

   NJNG s operations are subject to certain operating
risks   

  NJNG s operations are subject
to all operating hazards and risks incidental to handling, storing,
transporting and providing customers with natural gas, including explosions,
pollution, release of toxic substances, fires, storms and other adverse weather
conditions and hazards, each of which could result in damage to or destruction
of facilities or damage to persons and property. If any of these events were to
occur, NJR could suffer substantial losses. Moreover, as a result, NJR has
been, and likely will be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation
arising in the ordinary course of business. Although NJR maintains insurance
coverage, insurance may not be sufficient to cover all material expenses
related to these risks.  

   Major changes in the supply and price of natural gas
may affect financial results   

  While NJNG expects to provide
for the demand of its customers for the foreseeable future, factors impacting
suppliers and other third parties including increased competition, further
deregulation, transportation costs, transportation availability and drilling
for new natural gas resources may impact the supply and price of natural gas.
NJNG actively hedges against the fluctuation in the price of natural gas by
entering into forward and financial contracts with third parties. Should these
third parties fail to perform, it may result in a loss that could have a
material impact on the financial position, cash flows and statement of
operations of NJR.  

   NJNG and NJRES rely on third parties to supply natural
gas   

  NJNG s ability to provide natural gas for its present
and projected sales will depend upon its suppliers  ability to obtain and
deliver additional supplies of natural gas, as well as NJNG s ability to
acquire supplies directly from new sources. Factors beyond the control of NJNG,
its suppliers and the independent suppliers who have obligations to provide
natural gas to certain NJNG customers, may affect NJNG s ability to deliver
such supplies. These factors include other parties  control over the drilling
of new wells and the facilities to transport natural gas to NJNG s city gate
stations, competition for the acquisition of natural gas, priority allocations,
impact of severe weather disruptions to natural gas supplies, the regulatory
and pricing policies of federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as the
availability of Canadian reserves for export to the United States. Energy
deregulation legislation may increase competition among natural gas utilities
and impact the quantities of natural gas requirements needed for sales service.  

  NJRES also relies on a firm
supply source to meet its energy management obligations for its customers.
Should NJRES  suppliers fail to deliver supplies of natural gas, there could be
a material impact on its cash flows and statement of operations.  

   The use of derivative contracts in the normal course
of NJRES  business could result in financial losses that negatively impact
results of operations   

  NJRES uses derivatives,
including futures, forwards and swaps, to manage commodity and financial market
risks. NJRES could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of
volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a
counterparty fails to perform under   

15     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
(Continued)   

a contract.
In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from
external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve
management s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the
underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could adversely
affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts.  

   Inflation and increased natural gas costs could
adversely impact NJNG s customer base and customer collections and increase its
level of indebtedness   

  Inflation has caused increases in certain operating
and capital costs. NJR has a process in place to continually review the
adequacy of NJNG s rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing
service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those rates. The ability
to control expenses is an important factor that will influence future results.  

  Rapid increases in the price
of purchased gas may cause NJNG to experience a significant increase in
short-term debt because it must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased,
which can be significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered
through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas delivered. Increases
in purchased gas costs also slow collection efforts as customers are more
likely to delay the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher-than-normal
accounts receivable. This situation also results in higher short-term debt
levels and increased bad debt expense.  

   Changes in weather conditions may affect earnings and
cash flows   

  Weather conditions and other
natural phenomena can have an adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. Severe
weather conditions can impact suppliers and the pipelines that deliver gas to
NJNG s distribution system. Extended mild weather, during either the winter
period or summer period, can have a significant impact on demand for and the
cost of natural gas. While NJR believes the CIP will mitigate the impact of
weather on its gross margin, unusual weather conditions may still have an
impact on its earnings. The CIP will not mitigate the impact of unusual weather
conditions on its cash flows.  

   Changes in customer growth may affect earnings and
cash flows   

  NJNG s ability to increase its
utility firm gross margin is dependent upon the new construction housing
market, as well as the additional conversion of customers to natural gas from
other fuel sources. Should there be a slow down in these markets there could be
an adverse impact on NJNG s utility firm gross margin, earnings and cash flow.  

   The cost of providing pension and postemployment
health care benefits to eligible former employees is subject to changes in
pension fund values and changing demographics and may have a material adverse
effect on NJR s financial results   

  NJR has two defined benefit
pension plans and two postemployment health care plans (OPEB) for the benefit
of substantially all full-time employees and qualified retirees. The cost of
providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to
changes in the market value of   

16     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
(Continued)   

the pension and OPEB fund
assets and changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of
beneficiaries, an expected increase in the number of eligible former employees
over the next five years and increases in health care costs.  

  Any sustained declines in
equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect
on the value of NJR s pension and OPEB funds. In these circumstances, NJR may
be required to recognize an increased pension and OPEB expense or a charge to
the statement of operations to the extent that the pension and OPEB fund values
are less than the total anticipated liability under the plans.  

   NJRES  earnings and cash flows are dependent upon an
asset optimization strategy of its physical assets with financial transactions   

  NJRES  earnings and cash flows
are based, in part, on its ability to optimize its portfolio of
contractual-based natural gas storage and pipeline assets. The optimization
strategy involves utilizing its physical assets to take advantage of
differences in natural gas prices between geographic locations and/or time
periods. Any change among various pricing points could affect these
differentials, which in turn could affect NJRES  earnings and cash flows.  

   NJRES is exposed to market risk and may incur losses
in wholesale services   

  The commodity, storage and transportation portfolios
at NJRES consist of contracts to buy and sell natural gas commodities, which
are settled by physical delivery.  

  If the values of these
contracts change in a direction or manner that NJRES does not anticipate, the
value of NJRES  portfolio could be negatively impacted. NJRES employs a value
at risk (VaR) model over these portfolios. VaR is defined as the largest likely
potential loss in portfolio value. Based on a 95 percent confidence interval
and employing a 1-day and a 10-day holding period for all
positions, NJRES  portfolio of positions as of September 30, 2006 had a 1-day
holding period VaR of $600,000 and 10-day holding period VaR of $2.5
million.  

   Accounting results may not be indicative of the risks
NJRES is taking or the expected economic results due to changes in accounting
for energy services   

  Although NJRES enters into
various contracts to hedge the value of its energy assets and operations, there
can be no assurance that the hedge is operating effectively as intended and
will continue to do so. Any uncontemplated change in the underlying item being
hedged to that of a different or unforecasted position could result in a
substantial negative impact to NJRES  and NJR s, financial condition, statement
of operations or statement of cash flows.  

   NJNG and NJRES rely on storage and transportation
assets that they do not own or control to deliver natural gas   

  NJNG and NJRES depend on
natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and
operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to
provide retail energy services to customers. If transportation is disrupted, or
if storage capacity is inadequate, including for reasons of force majeure, the
ability of NJNG and NJRES to sell and deliver their   

17     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
(Continued)   

products and
services may be hindered. As a result, they may be responsible for damages
incurred by their customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring
alternative supply at then-current market rates.  

   Regulatory and Legal
Risks     

   NJR is subject to governmental regulation. Compliance
with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary
approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial costs to NJR   

  NJR and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial
regulation from federal, state and local regulatory authorities. They are
required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous
authorizations, permits approvals and certificates from governmental agencies.
These agencies regulate various aspects of their business, including customer
rates, services and natural gas pipeline operations.  

  NJR and its subsidiaries
cannot predict the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations
of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable
to them. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations
could influence their operating environment and may result in substantial costs
to them.  

   NJNG may not be able to recover amounts paid to
plaintiffs as part of the Long Branch litigation settlement   

  As fully described in  Item 3. Legal Proceedings,  during fiscal 2006, NJNG reached
a confidential settlement with plaintiffs surrounding claims alleging among
other things, personal injury, wrongful death, property damage and claims for
medical monitoring stemming from the operation and remediation of the former
MGP site in Long Branch. NJNG requested that its insurer, Kemper Insurance
Company (Kemper) defend and indemnify claims involving the Long Branch
litigation and reimburse NJNG for remediation costs for the Long Branch site
that exceed the self-insured retention. Although Kemper has not denied
coverage, it has not yet reimbursed NJNG for any costs incurred to date. In October 2004,
NJNG instituted suit for declaratory relief against Kemper and the matter is
currently being litigated. Management believes that litigation costs and the
amounts paid pursuant to the settlement are recoverable through insurance and
any liabilities not recoverable through insurance, except for punitive and
personal injury damages, would be recoverable, with BPU approval, through the
remediation rider. However, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate
resolution of the Kemper litigation, the recovery of these amounts or the
impact of these matters on NJNG s financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.  

   Risks related to the regulation of NJNG could affect
the rates it is able to charge, its costs and its profitability   

  NJNG is subject to regulation
by federal, state and local authorities. These authorities regulate many
aspects of NJNG s distribution operations, including construction and
maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, rates that NJNG can charge
customers, rates of return, the authorized cost of capital, recovery of
pipeline replacement and environmental remediation costs and relationships with

18     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
(Continued)   

its
affiliates. NJNG s ability to obtain rate increases, extend its incentive
programs and to maintain its current rates of return depends on regulatory
discretion. There can be no assurance that NJNG will be able to obtain rate
increases, continue its incentive programs or continue receiving its currently
authorized rates of return.  

   Significant regulatory assets recorded by NJNG could
be disallowed for recovery from customers in the future   

  NJNG records regulatory assets
on its financial statements to reflect the rate-making nature and regulatory
decision making of the BPU, as allowed by current accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. The creation of a
regulatory asset allows for the deferral of costs that NJNG would normally,
absent the recovery mechanism in rates approved by the BPU to charge its
customers, charge to expense on its income statement. Primary regulatory assets
that are subject to BPU approval include the underrecovery of BGSS and
Universal Service Fund (USF) costs, remediation costs associated with its MGP
sites, the WNC and the New Jersey Clean Energy program. If there were to be a
change in regulatory position surrounding the collection of these deferred
costs there could be a material impact on NJNG s financial position, operations
and cash flows.  

   NJR s charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a
transaction that stockholders would view as favorable   

  The certificate of
incorporation and bylaws of NJR, as well as New Jersey law, contain provisions
that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited
change in control of NJR, which may negatively affect the market price of the
common stock or the ability of stockholders to participate in a transaction in
which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then
current market price. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing
changes in management. In addition, the board of directors is authorized to
issue preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board
of directors may determine. The holders of common stock will be subject to, and
may be negatively affected by, the rights of any preferred stock that may be
issued in the future. In addition, NJR is subject to the New Jersey
Shareholders  Protection Act, which could have the effect of delaying or
preventing a change of control of NJR.  

   Environmental Risks     

   NJR costs of compliance with present and future
environmental laws are significant and could adversely affect its cash flows
and profitability   

  NJR s operations are subject
to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and
regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural
resources and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations may
require NJR to expend significant financial resources to, among other things,
conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If NJR fails to
comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if it is unable
to do so due to factors beyond its control, it may be subject to civil
liabilities or criminal penalties and may be required to incur significant
expenditures to come into compliance. Additionally, any alleged violations of
environmental laws and regulations may require NJR to expend significant
resources in its defense against alleged violations.  

19  

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

   ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS     

None  

   ITEM 2. PROPERTIES     

NJNG  
(All properties are located in New Jersey)    

  NJNG owns approximately 6,500 miles of distribution
main, 6,300 miles of service main, 210 miles of transmission main and
approximately 483,000 meters. Mains are primarily located under public roads.
Where mains are located under private property, NJNG has obtained easements
from the owners of record.  

  Additionally, NJNG owns and operates two LNG storage
plants in Stafford Township, Ocean County, and Howell Township, Monmouth
County. The two LNG plants have an aggregate estimated maximum capacity of
150,000 dths per day. These facilities are used for peaking natural gas supply
and emergencies.  

  NJNG owns four service centers located in Rockaway
Township, Morris County; Atlantic Highlands and Wall Township, Monmouth County;
and Lakewood, Ocean County. These service centers house storerooms, garages,
gas distribution and administrative offices. NJNG leases its headquarters and
customer service facilities in Wall Township, customer service offices in
Asbury Park, Monmouth County, and a service center in Manahawkin, Ocean County.
These customer service offices support customer contact, marketing, economic
development and other functions.  

  Substantially all of NJNG s
properties, not expressly excepted or duly released, are subject to the lien of
an Indenture of Mortgage and Deed of Trust to BNY Midwest Trust Company,
Chicago, Illinois, dated April 1, 1952, as amended by 31 supplemental
indentures (Indenture), as security for NJNG s bonded debt, which totaled
approximately $195 million at September 30, 2006. In addition, under the terms
of the Indenture, NJNG could have issued approximately $424 million of
additional first mortgage bonds as of September 30, 2006.  

       Retail and Other     (All properties are located in New
Jersey) 

  At September 30, 2006, CR R owned 122 acres
of undeveloped land. See  Note 1. Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets  in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of a change in strategy with regard to CR R s 52 acres of
Atlantic County land.  

  See  Item 1. Environment 
for a discussion of regulatory matters concerning undeveloped land owned by
CR R.  

  NJRHS leases service centers
in Town of Dover, Morris County, and Tinton Falls, Monmouth County.  

    Capital Expenditure Program    

  See  MD A Cash
Flows  for a discussion of anticipated fiscal 2007 and 2008 capital
expenditures for each business segment.  

20     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

MGP Remediation    

  NJNG has identified 11 former MGP sites, dating back
to the late 1800s and early 1900s, which contain contaminated residues from the
former gas manufacturing operations. Ten of these 11 sites in question were
acquired by NJNG in 1952. Gas manufacturing operations ceased at these sites at
least by the mid-1950s and, in some cases, had been discontinued many
years earlier. All of the former gas manufacturing facilities were subsequently
dismantled by NJNG or the previous owners. Since October 1989, NJNG has
been operating under Administrative Consent Orders or Memoranda of Agreement
with the NJDEP covering all 11 sites. These orders and agreements establish the
procedures to be followed in developing a final remedial cleanup plan for each
site. NJNG is currently involved in administrative proceedings with the NJDEP
with respect to the MGP sites in question and is participating in various
studies and investigations by outside consultants to determine the nature and
extent of any such contaminated residues and to develop appropriate programs of
remedial action where warranted. Until September 2000, most of the cost of
such studies and investigations had been shared under an agreement with the
former owner and operator of 10 of the MGP sites, Jersey Central Power  
Light (JCP L), a subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corporation (FirstEnergy).  

  In September 2000, a revised agreement was
executed pursuant to which NJNG is responsible for two of the sites, while
JCP L is responsible for the remaining eight sites. Also in September 2000,
NJNG purchased a 20-year cost-containment insurance policy and an
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Insurance Policy (ERCLIP) for
the two sites (see  Kemper Insurance 
 Company Litigation  below.) On September 14,
2004, the BPU approved a simultaneous transfer of properties whereby NJNG would
take ownership of two sites. NJNG continues to participate in the investigation
and remedial action and bears the cost related to the one MGP site that was not
subject to the original cost-sharing agreement.  

  In June 1992, the BPU approved a remediation
rider through which NJNG may, subject to BPU approval, recover its remediation
expenditures, including carrying costs, over rolling 7-year periods. On April 12,
2006, the BPU approved a stipulation that maintained the existing recovery rate
of approximately $19.2 million annually. As of September 30, 2006, $83.7 million of previously incurred remediation
costs,   net of recoveries
from customers as well as received and anticipated insurance proceeds, are
included in Regulatory assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

  In March 1995, NJNG instituted an action for
declaratory relief against 24 separate insurance companies in the Superior
Court of New Jersey. These insurance carriers provided comprehensive general
liability coverage to NJNG from 1951 through 1985. In July 1996, the
complaint was amended to name Kaiser-Nelson Steel and Salvage Company
(Kaiser-Nelson) and its successors for environmental damages caused by
Kaiser-Nelson s decommissioning of structures at several MGP sites. In September 2001,
NJNG reached a favorable settlement with the insurance carrier that provided
the majority of NJNG s coverage. This settlement involved a significant cash
payment to NJNG, which was credited to the remediation rider, and was received
in four installments ending October 2004. In January 2006, NJNG
reached a settlement of all claims with Kaiser-Nelson, which included a cash
payment that was received by NJNG and credited to the remediation rider.
Consequently, NJNG has now dismissed or reached a settlement with all of its
insurance carriers who provided comprehensive general liability coverage to
NJNG in connection with the MGP sites.  

21     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS  (Continued)   

NJNG is pursuing the potential
settlement of alleged Natural Resource Damage (NRD) claims that might be
brought by the NJDEP concerning three   MGP sites.
NJDEP has not made any specific demands for compensation for alleged injury to
groundwater or other natural resources. NJNG s evaluation of these potential
claims is in the early stages, and it is not yet possible to quantify the
amount of compensation that NJDEP might seek to recover. NJNG anticipates any
costs associated with this matter would be recoverable through the remediation
rider.  

    Long Branch Litigation    

  Since July 2003, a series of complaints were
filed in the New Jersey Superior Court against NJNG, NJR, JCP L and
FirstEnergy. The complaints were originally filed in Monmouth County and, as of
February 2004, were designated as a Mass Tort Litigation (the  Mass Tort
Litigation ) for centralized case management purposes and transferred to the
Bergen County Law Division. There were originally 528 complaints filed. All 528
complaints have been dismissed or settled, as described below.  

  Among other things, the complaints alleged personal
injuries, wrongful death, survivorship actions, property damage and claims for
medical monitoring stemming from the operation and remediation of the former
MGP site in Long Branch, New Jersey. The relief sought included compensatory
damages, the establishment of a medical monitoring fund, disgorgement of
alleged profits, cost of cleanup and remediation, natural resource damages and
punitive damages.  

  In December 2005, a confidential settlement between
NJNG and the plaintiffs was finalized and approved by the New Jersey Superior
Court in Bergen County.  

  JCP L and FirstEnergy made a demand upon NJNG and
NJR for indemnification pursuant to the September 2000 agreement between
these entities and NJNG, whereby NJNG assumed responsibility for the Long
Branch site. NJNG has agreed to honor the indemnification terms of the
agreement. NJNG s insurance carriers were initially   notified
of the claims, and Kemper Insurance Company (Kemper), under the ERCLIP, initially
agreed to provide a defense and certain coverage, subject to a reservation of
rights regarding various allegations in the complaints, typically not covered
by insurance against Kemper (see  Kemper Insurance Company
Litigation  below).  

  Management believes that litigation costs and the
settlement amount are recoverable through insurance (subject to the outcome of
the Kemper Insurance Company Litigation). Additionally, management believes
that any liabilities not recoverable through insurance, except for punitive and
personal injury damages, would be recoverable, with BPU approval, through the
remediation rider. However, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate
resolution of the recovery of these amounts or the impact on the Company s
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

  Twelve  pro se  matters
have been filed against the Company and NJNG since February 26, 2005.
These complaints were filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey Law Division,
Bergen County and allege the same claims made in the Mass Tort Litigation.
There are five active cases remaining. The others have been dismissed or
disposed of by the court. NJNG and the Company believe that the allegations in
the complaints have no merit and are vigorously defending against them.  

22     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
(Continued)   

The amount of total liability
resulting from the  pro se  matters
described in the preceding paragraph, if any, and any related insurance
recovery cannot be determined at this time; however, based on information and
relevant circumstances known at this time, management does not believe these
suits will have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.  

    Kemper Insurance Company Litigation    

  In October 2004, NJNG instituted suit for
declaratory relief against Kemper in the Superior Court of New Jersey Law
Division, Ocean County. The matter is under active case management. Kemper
provided insurance under an ERCLIP together with a cost containment coverage
policy effective July 21, 2000. Prior to the institution of this suit,
NJNG requested that Kemper defend and indemnify claims involving the Mass Tort Litigation
(see  Long Branch Site Litigation , above) and
reimburse NJNG for remediation costs for the Long Branch site that exceed the
self-insured retention. Kemper reserved its rights regarding various
allegations in the Mass Tort Litigation and agreed to participate in the
defense of that matter. Although Kemper has not denied coverage, it has not yet
reimbursed NJNG for any costs incurred to date. In fiscal 2003, Kemper ceased
its underwriting operations and voluntarily commenced a runoff of its business.
The Illinois Department of Insurance has approved Kemper s runoff plan.
Management believes that, with the exception of any liability for punitive and
personal injury damages, any costs associated with Kemper s failure to meet its
future obligations will be recoverable, with BPU approval, through the
remediation rider.  

  There can be no assurance as
to the ultimate resolution of this matter or the impact on the Company s
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

    General    

  The Company is party to
various other claims, legal actions and complaints arising in the ordinary
course of business. In the Company s opinion, other than as disclosed in this
Item 3. The ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

   ITEM 4.
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS     

None  

23     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 4A.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     

There is no arrangement or
understanding between the officers listed above and any other person pursuant
to which they were selected as officers. The following is a brief account of
their business experience during the past five years:  

    Laurence M. Downes, Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer    

  Mr. Downes has held the
position of Chairman since September 1996. He has held the position of
President and Chief Executive Officer since July 1995. From January 1990
to July 1995, he held the position of Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer.  

    Kathleen T. Ellis, Senior Vice President, Corporate
Affairs    

  Ms. Ellis has held the
position of Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs since December 2004.
From December 2002 to November 2004, she held the position of
Director of Communications for the Governor of the State of New Jersey, and
from August 1998 to December 2002, she held the position of Manager
of Communications and Director, State Governmental Affairs for Public Service
Electric and Gas Company (PSE G), a combined gas and electric utility
company based in Newark, NJ . 

    Glenn C. Lockwood, Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer    

  Mr. Lockwood has held the
position of Chief Financial Officer since September 1995 and the added
position of Senior Vice President since January 1996. From January 1994
to September 1995, he held the position of Vice President, Controller and
Chief Accounting Officer. From January 1990   

24     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY  (Continued)   

to January 1994,
he held the position of Assistant Vice President, Controller and Chief
Accounting Officer.  

    Joseph P. Shields, Senior Vice President, NJRES and
NJNG    

  Mr. Shields joined NJNG
in 1983 and has been Senior Vice President, NJRES since January 1996. As
head of the energy services business unit, he is responsible for natural gas
supply acquisitions, negotiating transportation agreements and monitoring
natural gas control activities as well as regulated wholesale marketing activity
for NJNG.  

    Mariellen Dugan, Vice President and General Counsel    

  Ms. Dugan has held the
position of Vice President and General Counsel since December 2005. Prior
to joining NJR, from February 2004 to November 2005, she held the
position of First Assistant Attorney General for the State of New Jersey, and
from February 2003 to February 2004, she held the position of Chief
of Staff, Executive Assistant Attorney General of the State of New Jersey. From
July 1999 to January 2003, Ms. Dugan was Of Counsel to the law
firm of Kevin H. Marino P.C. in Newark, NJ.  

    Kathleen F. Kerr, Vice President, Marketing and
Customer Services, NJNG    

  Mrs. Kerr joined NJNG as
Vice President, Marketing and Customer Services in January 2005. Before
joining NJNG, Mrs. Kerr was Director of Customer Service for PSE G
from April 2002 to December 2004. Prior thereto, she held various
senior management level positions at PSE G in customer services and other
areas from April 1985 to December 2004.  

    Craig A. Lynch, Vice President, Energy Delivery, NJNG    

  Mr. Lynch has held the
position of Vice President, Energy Delivery, NJNG, since November 2005. He
joined NJNG in 1984 and is responsible for all aspects of NJNG s distribution,
transmission, and utility operations. Prior to his current position, Mr. Lynch
held the position of Director, Distribution, NJNG from July 1997 to October 2005.
His duties were focused on the operation of the distribution system, ensuring
that the expansion and maintenance of the system satisfied all federal, state,
county and municipal regulations and conformed to all of NJNG s procedures and
practices in an efficient and economical manner.  

    Thomas J. Massaro, Jr., Vice President, Corporate
Strategy, Service; Treasurer, NJNG    

  Mr. Massaro has held the
position of Vice President, Corporate Strategy, since June 2005 and the
position of Treasurer at NJNG, since September 2006. He is responsible for
the company s treasury function, strategic planning process and quality. He
joined NJNG in June 1989 as a Management Engineer and has held several
senior management positions in marketing, operations and customer  service, including President of NJRHS from November 2004
to June 2005, and Director of Operations at NJRHS from January 2004
to November 2004. 

25     

New Jersey Resources   Part I  

ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
(Continued)   

George C. Smith, Vice President, Internal Auditing    

  Mr. Smith joined NJR in
1984 as an Associate Auditor. He has held the position of Vice President,
Internal Auditing since January 2004. In his prior role as Director of
Internal Audit from 1998 to 2004, he redefined the internal audit function at
NJR, implementing a new approach to identify and analyze controls and related
processes.  

    Mark R. Sperduto, Vice President, Regulatory Affairs,
NJNG    

  Mr. Sperduto joined NJNG
in March 2005 and is responsible for the regulatory affairs strategy and
supports initiatives on key issues such as price stability and improved
service. Previously, Mr. Sperduto held the positions of Issues Manager-Financial
and Director Corporate Issues at PSE G from November 2001 to March 2005
and held various positions there from August 1991 to November 2001.
Mr. Sperduto started his career on the staff of the New Jersey Board of
Public Utilities, holding various positions with the agency from 1980 to 1991.  

    Deborah G. Zilai, Vice President, Corporate Services,
Service    

  Mrs. Zilai has held the
position of Vice President, Corporate Services since June 2005. She joined
New Jersey Resources in June 1996 after a twenty-year career at
International Business Machines Corporation, where she held various management
positions. Her current responsibilities include technology, human resources and
supply chain management. From June 1996 to May 2005, she served as
Vice President, Information Systems and Services.  

    Rhonda M. Figueroa, Corporate Secretary    

  Ms. Figueroa has held the
position of Corporate Secretary since March 2006. Her responsibilities
include serving as the secretary to the Board of Directors of NJR and its
subsidiaries as well as various internal committees. She also serves as the
company s registered agent and keeper of records. Ms. Figueroa joined NJR
in 1981. From November 2005 to March 2006 she held the position of
Assistant Corporate Secretary, from August 2002 to November 2005, she
held the position of Manager of Business Transformation, and from August 2001
to August 2002, she held the position of Manager of Marketing Services for
NJRHS.  

    Linda B. Kellner, Director of Government Affairs and
Chief of Staff    

  Ms. Kellner has held the
position of Chief of Staff since February 2001 and the position of
Director of Government Affairs since January 2003. She currently is
responsible for state and federal legislative activities impacting the energy
industry, community relations as they relate to the Company s environmental
remediation projects, the corporate-wide Diversity initiative and preparation
of communications for the NJR Board of Directors. From January of 2000 to January of
2003, she held the position of Manager of Government Affairs and from October of
1995 to December of 1999, she served as Manager of Policy Analysis.  

26  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM
5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS     

NJR s Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol NJR. As of September 30, 2006 ,  NJR had 16,679 holders of record of its common stock.  

  NJR s
common stock high and low sales prices and dividends paid per share were as
follows:  

The Company has been authorized by its Board of
Directors to cumulatively repurchase up to 3.5 million shares of its
common stock through a repurchase program that was initiated in 1996. As of
September 30, 2006, the Company has repurchased approximately 3.15 million
shares of its common stock.  

  The
following table sets forth NJR s repurchase activity for the quarter ended
September 30, 2006:   

The chief executive officer s annual certification
regarding the Company s compliance with the NYSE s corporate governance listing
standards was submitted to the NYSE in February 2006.  

27     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATISTICS   

(a)                 Total assets for 2005,
2004 and 2001 have been reclassified to reflect broker margin deposit amounts. 

28     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA (Continued)   

(a)                 Excluding accumulated
other comprehensive income. 

29     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA (Continued)   

NJNG OPERATING
STATISTICS     

30  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Management s Overview    

  New Jersey Resources Corporation (NJR or the Company)
is an energy services holding company providing retail natural gas service in
New Jersey and wholesale natural gas and related energy services to customers
in states from the Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent to New England and Canada
through its two principal subsidiaries, New Jersey Natural Gas (NJNG) and NJR
Energy Services (NJRES).  

  NJNG is a natural gas utility which provides regulated
retail natural gas service in central and northern New Jersey and also
participates in the off-system sales and capacity release markets, and
comprises the Natural Gas Distribution segment. NJNG is regulated by the New
Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU).  

  NJRES maintains and trades around a portfolio of
physical assets consisting of natural gas storage and transportation contracts.
As well, NJRES provides wholesale energy services to non-affiliated utility and
energy companies. NJRES comprises the Energy Services segment.  

  The Retail and Other segment includes NJR Home
Services (NJRHS), which provides service, sales and installation of appliances;
NJR Energy, an investor in energy-related ventures, most significantly, through
NJNR Pipeline it holds the Company s 5.53 percent interest in Iroquois Gas and
Transmission System, LP (Iroquois), which is a 412-mile natural gas
pipeline from the New York-Canadian border to Long Island, New York; Commercial
Realty and Resources (CR R), which holds and develops commercial real
estate; and NJR Investment, which makes energy-related equity investments.  

  Net income
and assets by business segment are as follows:  

Natural Gas
Distribution Segment   

  Natural Gas Distribution operations have been managed
with the goal of growing profitably without the need for traditional base rate
increases. NJNG, working together with the BPU and the   

31     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

New Jersey Department of the
Public Advocate, Division of Rate Counsel (formerly called the Division of the
Ratepayer Advocate), has been able to accomplish this goal for more than 12
years through several key initiatives including:  

             Managing its customer
growth, which is expected to total about 2.2 percent annually; 

             Generating earnings from
various BPU-authorized gross margin-sharing incentive programs, which are
currently approved through October 31, 2007; 

             Reducing the impact of
weather on NJNG s earnings through a Weather-Normalization Clause (WNC); 

             Managing the volatility of
wholesale natural gas prices through a hedging program to help keep customers 
prices as stable as possible; and 

             Improving its cost
structure through various productivity initiatives. 

  In conducting NJNG s business, management focuses on
factors it believes may have significant influence on its future financial
results. NJNG s policy is to work with all stakeholders, including customers,
regulators and policymakers, to achieve favorable results. These factors
include the rate of NJNG s customer growth in its service territory, which can
be influenced by general economic conditions as well as political and
regulatory policies that may impact the new housing market. A portion of NJNG s
customer growth comes from the conversion market, which is influenced by the
delivered cost of natural gas compared with competing fuels, interest rates and
other economic conditions.  

  For the reporting periods through September 30,
2006, the impact of weather on NJNG s utility gross margin had been
significantly mitigated due to its WNC, however, lower customer usage per
degree-day was not captured by the WNC. NJNG has experienced lower customer
usage per degree-day, which it believes is due primarily to customer
conservation resulting from an increase in wholesale natural gas commodity
costs. In order to reduce the impact of the reduction in customer usage, NJNG
filed a Conservation and Usage Adjustment (CUA) proposal with the BPU in December 2005.
On October 12, 2006, the BPU approved a stipulation that was reached with
the staff of the BPU and the Division of Rate Counsel on September 30,
2006, which modified the CUA proposal into the Conservation Incentive Program (CIP).  

  The CIP is a three-year pilot program, designed to
decouple the link between customer usage and NJNG s utility gross margin to
allow NJNG to encourage its customers to conserve energy. For the term of the
pilot the existing WNC would be suspended and replaced with the CIP tracking
mechanism, which addresses utility gross margin variations related to both
weather and customer usage in comparison to established benchmarks. Recovery of
such utility gross margin variations is subject to additional conditions
including an earnings test and an evaluation of Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS)-related
savings achieved. Under the CIP agreement, if NJNG does not file for a rate
review with the BPU within two years, the return on equity for the earnings
test will decline from 10.5 percent to 10.25 percent. To encourage energy
efficiency, NJNG is also required to initiate programs to further customer
conservation efforts over the term of the pilot. NJNG shall provide an initial   

32     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

$2 million in funding for
such programs and will continue to fund programs throughout the term of the
pilot. At September 30, 2006, the obligation to fund these conservation
programs was recorded at its present value of $1.8 million and recognized
as a component of Operating and maintenance expense in the Consolidated
Statements of Income. An annual filing for the clause must be made in June of
each year, coincident with NJNG s annual BGSS filing.  

  NJNG s operating expenses are heavily influenced by
labor costs, large components of which are covered by a negotiated collective
bargaining agreement that expires in 2008. Labor-related fringe benefit costs,
which are also subject to numerous factors, may also influence NJNG s results.  

  As a regulated company, NJNG is required to recognize
the impact of regulatory decisions on its financial statements. As a result,
significant costs are deferred and treated as regulatory assets, pending BPU
decisions regarding their ultimate recovery from customers. The most
significant costs incurred that are subject to this accounting treatment
include manufactured gas plant (MGP) remediation costs and wholesale natural gas
costs. Actual remediation costs may vary from management s estimates due to the
developing nature of remediation requirements and related litigation. If there
are changes in the regulatory position on the recovery of these costs, such
costs would be charged to income.  

  Due to the capital-intensive
nature of NJNG s operations and the seasonal nature of its working capital
requirements, significant changes in interest rates can also impact NJNG s
results.  

   Energy Services Segment   

  The Energy Services segment is focused on maximizing
physical asset values that it controls through the use of contractual rights,
which allows NJRES to take advantage of differences in pricing across
geographic regions and/or time periods. NJRES also seeks to utilize its
marketplace knowledge in capacity and supply contract management for other
utilities and energy companies.  

  The Energy Services segment
focuses on providing wholesale energy services, including base load natural gas
services, peaking services and balancing services, utilizing physical assets it
controls, as well as natural gas management services to third parties. NJRES 
contribution to earnings has increased over the past several years due
primarily to increases in its portfolio of pipeline and storage capacity and the
volatile nature of wholesale natural gas prices. The volatile nature of
wholesale natural gas prices over short periods of time can significantly
impact NJRES  revenue and gross margin. Furthermore, gross margin for NJRES is
generally greater during the winter months, while the fixed costs of its
capacity assets are generally spread throughout the year. Future growth is
expected to come from opportunities that include the acquisition of additional
storage and pipeline capacity assets and portfolio management services for
third parties.  

   Retail and Other
Segment   

  In the Retail and Other
segment, NJRHS is focused on growing its installation business and expanding
its service contract customer base. CR R seeks additional opportunities to
enhance the value of its undeveloped land.  

33     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

Critical Accounting Policies    

  The Company prepares its
financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America (GAAP). Application of these accounting
principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures
of contingencies during the reporting period. The Company regularly evaluates
its estimates, including those related to the calculation of the fair value of
natural gas commodity contracts and derivative instruments, unbilled revenues,
provisions for depreciation and amortization, regulatory assets, income taxes,
pension and postemployment benefits other than pensions and contingencies
related to environmental matters and litigation. NJR bases its estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for
making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are
not readily apparent from other sources. In the normal course of business,
estimated amounts are subsequently adjusted to actual results that may differ
from estimates.  

   Regulatory Accounting   

  NJNG maintains its accounts in accordance with the
Uniform System of Accounts as prescribed by the BPU. As a result of the
ratemaking process, NJNG is required to follow Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71,   Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation   (SFAS 71), and consequently,
the accounting principles applied by NJNG differ in certain respects from those
applied by unregulated businesses. NJNG is required under SFAS 71 to recognize
the impact of regulatory decisions on its financial statements. NJNG s BGSS
requires NJNG   to project its natural gas costs
and provides the ability, subject to BPU approval, to recover or refund the
difference, if any, of such actual costs as compared with the projected costs
included in prices through a BGSS charge to customers. Any underrecovery or
overrecovery is recorded as a Regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets and reflected in the BGSS charge to customers in subsequent
years. NJNG also enters into derivatives that are used to hedge natural gas
purchases, and the offset to the resulting fair value of derivative assets or
liabilities is recorded as a Regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.  

  In addition to the BGSS, other
regulatory assets consist primarily of remediation costs associated with MGP
sites, the WNC, the New Jersey Clean Energy Program and the Universal Service
Fund Program, all of which are subject to BPU approval. If there are changes in
future regulatory positions that indicate the recovery of such regulatory
assets is not probable, the related cost and carrying costs would be charged to
income in   the period of such determination.  

   Derivatives   

  Derivative activities are recorded in accordance with
SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,   as amended (SFAS 133), under
which NJR records the fair value of derivatives held as assets and liabilities.
NJR s unregulated subsidiaries record changes in the fair value of the
effective portion of derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges, net of tax, in
Accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of Common stock equity. Under
SFAS 133, NJR also has   

34     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

certain derivative instruments
that do not qualify as hedges. The change in fair value of these derivatives is
recorded in Gas purchases on the Consolidated Statements of Income. In
addition, the changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of
derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting are recorded as increases or
decreases in natural gas costs or interest expense, as applicable, based on the
nature of the derivatives.  

  NJNG s derivatives that are used to hedge its natural
gas purchasing activities are recoverable through its BGSS, subject to BPU
approval. Accordingly, the offset to the change in fair value of these derivatives
is recorded as a Regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.  

  NJR has not designated any derivatives as fair value
hedges as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.  

  In providing its unregulated wholesale energy
services, NJRES enters into physical contracts to buy and sell natural gas.
These contracts qualify for the  normal purchase normal sale  scope exception
under SFAS 133 in that they provide for the purchase or sale of natural gas
that will be delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold by NJRES over
a reasonable period of time in the normal course of business. Accordingly,
NJRES accounts for these contracts under accrual accounting.  

  The fair value of derivative
investments is determined by reference to quoted market prices of listed
contracts, published quotations or quotations from independent parties. NJRES 
trading portfolio is valued using a combination of proprietary modeling methods
and the most currently available market pricing and data. Should there be a
significant change in model assumptions, or in the underlying market prices or
data, or should certain contracts fail to meet the normal purchase normal sale
scope exception of SFAS 133, NJRES may experience a significant impact on its
financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

   Environmental Costs   

  At the end of each fiscal year, NJNG updates the
environmental review of its MGP sites, including a review of its potential
liability for investigation and remedial action, based on assistance from an
outside consulting firm. From this review, NJNG estimates expenditures to
remediate and monitor these MGP sites, exclusive of any insurance recoveries.
NJNG s estimate of these liabilities is developed from then currently available
facts, existing technology and presently enacted laws and regulations.  

  Where the information is sufficient to establish only
a range of probable liability, and no point within the range is more likely
than any other, it is NJNG s policy to accrue the lower end of the range. Since
management believes that recovery of these expenditures, as well as related
litigation costs, is probable through the regulatory process, in accordance
with SFAS 71, it has recorded a regulatory asset corresponding to the accrued
liability.  

  The actual costs to be incurred by NJNG are dependent
upon several factors, including final determination of remedial action,
changing technologies and governmental regulations, the ultimate ability of
other responsible parties to pay, the impact of litigation and any insurance
recoveries. If there are changes in future regulatory positions that indicate
the recovery of all or a portion of such   

35     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

regulatory asset is not
probable, the related cost and carrying   costs would be
charged to income in the period of such determination. As of September 30,
2006 and 2005, $83.7 million and $86.9 million of previously incurred
remediation costs, net of recoveries from customers and insurance proceeds
received and anticipated, is included in Regulatory assets on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, respectively.  

  If there are changes in the
regulatory position surrounding these costs, or should actual expenditures vary
significantly from estimates in that these costs are disallowed for recovery by
the BPU, such costs would be charged to income in the period of such
determination.  

   Postemployment Employee
Benefits   

  NJR s costs of providing postemployment employee
benefits are dependent upon numerous factors including actual plan experience
and assumptions of future experience. Postemployment employee benefit costs,
for example, are impacted by actual employee demographics including age,
compensation levels and employment periods, the level of contributions made to
the plans and the return on plan assets. Changes made to the provisions of the
plans may also impact current and future postemployment employee benefit costs.
Postemployment employee benefit costs may also be significantly affected by
changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on
plan assets, health care cost trends and discount rates used in determining the
projected benefit obligations (PBO). In determining the PBO and cost amounts,
assumptions can change from period to period and could result in material
changes to net postemployment employee benefit periodic costs and the related
liability recognized by NJR.  

  NJR s postemployment employee benefit plan assets
consist primarily of U.S. equity securities, international equity securities
and fixed-income investments, with a targeted allocation of 53 percent, 18
percent and 29 percent, respectively. Fluctuations in actual market returns, as
well as changes in interest rates, may result in increased or decreased
postemployment employee benefit costs in future periods. Postemployment
employee benefit expenses are included in Operations and maintenance
expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  

  The
following is a summary of a sensitivity analysis for each actuarial assumption:  

    Pension Plans    

36     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

Other Postemployment Benefits    

New Accounting
Standards   

  In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48,   Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   (FIN 48), which alters the
framework for recognizing income tax contingencies. Previously, under SFAS No. 5,
  Accounting for Contingencies,   the focus
was on the subsequent liability recognition for estimated losses from tax
contingencies where such losses were probable and the related amounts could be
reasonably estimated. Under this new interpretation, a contingent tax asset
(i.e., an uncertain tax position) may only be recognized if it is more likely
than not that it will ultimately be sustained upon audit. The Company will
adopt FIN 48 by the commencement of fiscal 2008. The Company is evaluating its
tax positions for all jurisdictions and all years for which the statute of
limitations remains open, as well as evaluating the impact that the adoption
will have on its financial statements.  

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair
Value Measurements  (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value as the amount
that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability, in an orderly
transaction between market participants, and establishes a fair value hierarchy
of quotes and unobservable data that should be used to develop pricing
assumptions. In addition, for assets and liabilities that are not actively
traded, for example, certain kinds of derivatives, SFAS 157 requires that a
fair value measurement include an adjustment for risks inherent in a valuation
technique and/or inputs, such as those used in pricing models. SFAS 157 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, however,
early adoption is permitted. The Company will adopt the provisions of the
statement prospectively and is evaluating the adoption date and its effect on
its financial condition.  

37  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AN  D RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(Continued) 

In September 2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 158,   Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postemployment Plans   (SFAS 158).
The statement requires an employer to recognize the funded status, measured as
the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit
obligation, of its benefit plans. SFAS 158 does not change how pensions and
other postemployment benefits are accounted for and reported in the income
statement. Certain economic events, which previously required disclosure only
in the notes to the financial statements, will be recognized as assets and
liabilities and offset in Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax,
on the Statement of Common Stock Equity to the extent such amounts are not
recognized in earnings as part of net periodic benefit costs. Amounts
recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income are adjusted as they are
subsequently recognized in earnings. The Company will adopt SFAS 158 on
September 30, 2007 and will apply the provisions of the statement
prospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of adoption on
its financial condition.  

    Results
of Operations      

   Consolidated   

  Net income increased
2.8   percent to $78.5 million   in   fiscal
2006, 6.6 percent to $76.3 million in fiscal 2005 and 9.4 percent to
$71.6 million in fiscal 2004. The fiscal 2006 results were $2.82 per basic
share and $2.80 per diluted share, compared with the fiscal 2005 results of
$2.77 per basic share and $2.71 per diluted share. Fiscal 2005 results included
a gain of $.22 per   basic   share ($.21 per diluted share) on the sale of a commercial
office building, a charge of $.05 per basic and diluted share associated with
an early retirement program for officers and a charge of $.09 per basic and
diluted share due to a change in strategy at CR R. Net of these items,
NJR s earnings in fiscal 2005 were $74.4 million, or $2.70 per basic share and
$2.65 per diluted share.  

38     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

Following
is a reconciliation of as reported and as adjusted information for Net income
and basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2005. This reconciliation
reflects the impact of the gain on sale of the commercial office building, the
charge related to an early retirement program for officers and the charge for
the impairment of certain undeveloped land. Management believes that this
reconciliation is needed due to the unusual nature of these items and that they
are not indicative of core results. It also provides a more consistent
comparison for year-over-year results:  

* Amount does not sum
due to rounding of individual components   

    Natural Gas Distribution Operations    

  NJNG is a local natural gas distribution company that
provides regulated retail energy services to approximately 471,000 residential
and commercial customers in central and northern New Jersey and participates in
the off-system sales and capacity release markets.  

  NJNG s business is seasonal by nature, as weather
conditions directly influence the volume of natural gas delivered.
Specifically, customer demand substantially increases during the winter months
when natural gas is used for heating purposes. As a result, NJNG receives most
of its gas distribution revenues during the first and second fiscal quarters
and is subject to variations in earnings and working capital during the year.  

39     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

In February 1999, the Electric Discount and
Energy Competition Act (EDECA), which provides the framework for the
restructuring of New Jersey s energy markets, became law. In March 2001,
the BPU issued an order to fully open NJNG s residential markets to
competition, restructure its rates to segregate its BGSS and delivery (i.e.,
transportation) service prices as required by EDECA and expand an incentive for
residential and small commercial customers to switch to transportation service.
NJNG earns no utility gross margin on the commodity portion of its natural gas
sales. NJNG earns utility gross margin through the delivery of natural gas to
its customers. In January 2002, the BPU ordered that BGSS could be
provided by suppliers other than the state s natural gas utilities, but BGSS
should be provided by the state s natural gas utilities until further BPU
action. No additional action has been taken by the BPU subsequent to its
initial order in January 2002.  

  NJNG s
financial results are summarized as follows:   

40     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

The
following table summarizes total throughput in billion cubic feet (Bcf) of
natural gas by type through the NJNG distribution system:  

Utility Gross Margin    

  NJNG s utility gross margin is defined as natural gas
revenues less natural gas purchases, sales tax, a Transitional Energy
Facilities Assessment (TEFA) and regulatory rider expenses. Management believes
that utility gross margin provides a more meaningful basis than revenue for
evaluating utility operations since natural gas costs, sales tax, TEFA and
regulatory rider expenses are included in operating revenue and passed through
to customers and, therefore, have no effect on utility gross margin. This
definition of utility gross margin may not be comparable to the definition of
gross margin used by others in the natural gas distribution business and other
industries.  

  Natural gas costs are charged to operating expenses on
the basis of therm sales at the prices in NJNG s BGSS tariff, approved by the
BPU. The BGSS tariff includes projected natural gas costs, net of supplier
refunds, the impact of hedging activities and credits from non-firm sales and
transportation activities. Any underrecoveries or overrecoveries from the
projected amounts are deferred and reflected in the BGSS tariff in subsequent
periods.  

  Sales tax was calculated at 6 percent of revenue for
fiscal years 2005 and 2004, as well as through July 14, 2006. On
July 15, 2006, the sales tax was raised to 7 percent of revenue. The sales
tax calculation excludes sales to cogeneration facilities, other utilities,
off-system sales and federal accounts.  

  TEFA, which is included in Energy and other taxes on
the Consolidated Statements of Income, is calculated on a per-therm basis and
excludes sales to cogeneration facilities, other utilities and off-system
sales. TEFA represents a regulatory allowed assessment imposed on all energy
providers in the state. In 1998, along with the state sales tax and a state
income tax, TEFA replaced the utility gross receipts tax formula. Previously,
non-utility providers of energy were not subject to the gross receipts and
franchise tax.  

  Regulatory rider expenses consist of recovery of
state-mandated programs and the remediation adjustment clause costs. These
expenses are designed to be offset by corresponding revenues and are calculated
on a per-therm basis.  

41     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

NJNG s operating
revenues remained flat at   approximately   $1.1 billion in both fiscal 2006 and 2005, after having
increased from $928.9 million, an increase of 22.5 percent, in fiscal 2004. The
minimal change in operating revenue from fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005
is the net effect of:  

             an
increase in operating revenues associated with firm sales of $83.3 million due
primarily to BGSS rates being adjusted in fiscal 2006 to provide provisional
rate relief to NJNG in light of the volatile wholesale natural gas market;
fully offset by 

             a
decrease due to a BGSS customer refund of approximately $23.7 million, which is
inclusive of a sales tax refund of $1.3 million, as a result of lower cost of
gas purchases achieved through a successful natural gas commodity purchasing
strategy and declining wholesale natural gas market prices; and 

             a
decrease in off-system sales in the amount of $59 million, which was primarily
the result of a decrease in volume sold, partially offset by an increase in the
average price of natural gas in comparison to fiscal 2005 levels. 

  The increase in operating revenue in fiscal 2005 from
fiscal 2004 was the result of higher prices due primarily to the increase in
wholesale natural gas commodity costs.  

  Gas purchases increased less than 1 percent to $847.3
million in fiscal 2006, as compared with $846.4 million in fiscal 2005. The
$900,000 increase in fiscal 2006 was due primarily to increased average gas prices
offset by decreased volumes purchased. Gas purchases increased 27.6 percent in
fiscal 2005 as compared with fiscal 2004 purchases of $663.4 million. The
increase in fiscal 2005 was the result of higher prices due primarily to the
increase in wholesale natural gas commodity costs as a result of several
significant weather events that impacted short-term natural gas supplies.  

  Sales tax and TEFA, which are included in both
Revenues and Energy and other taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income,
totaled $52.9 million, $50.5 million and $45.2 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. This increase in fiscal 2006 as compared with fiscal 2005
is due primarily to an increase in operating revenue from firm sales to $799
million in fiscal 2006 from $741 million in fiscal 2005. Due to its being in
effect since mid-July, the one percent increase in sales tax mandated by the
state of New Jersey did not materially impact the increase. The increase in
sales tax and TEFA in fiscal 2005 was due primarily to higher operating revenue
from firm sales of $741 million in fiscal 2005 from $644 million in fiscal
2004.  

  Regulatory rider expenses totaled $28.6 million, $31.6
million and $9.5 million in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The
decrease in regulatory rider expenses in fiscal 2006 is a direct result of the
decrease in firm throughput through the NJNG natural gas distribution system.
The increase in regulatory rider expense in fiscal 2005 is due primarily to
higher rates associated with the remediation and Clean Energy riders.  

  Utility gross margin is comprised of three major
categories:  

             Utility
Firm Gross Margin, which is derived from residential and commercial customers
who receive natural gas service from NJNG through either sales or transportation
tariffs; 

42     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

Incentive
programs, where revenues generated or savings achieved from BPU-approved
off-system sales, capacity release, Financial Risk Management (defined in  Incentive Programs,    below)
or storage incentive programs are shared between customers and NJNG; and 

             Utility gross margin from
interruptible customers who have the ability to switch to alternative fuels and
are subject to BPU-approved incentives. 

    Utility Firm Gross Margin    

  Utility gross margin from residential and commercial
customers was impacted by the WNC, which provided for a revenue adjustment if
the weather varied by more than one-half percent from normal weather (i.e., 20-year
average). The accumulated adjustment from one heating season (i.e.,
October through May) was billed or credited to customers in subsequent
periods. This mechanism reduced the variability of both customers  bills and
NJNG s earnings due to weather fluctuations.  

  The WNC did not, however, reflect reductions in
customer usage from the assumed level in the WNC. These reductions related to
customer usage will be captured in NJNG s newly approved CIP tariff effective
in fiscal 2007.  

  Customers switching between sales service and
transportation service affect the components of utility gross margin from firm
customers. NJNG s total utility gross margin is not negatively affected by
customers who use its transportation service and purchase natural gas from
another supplier because its tariff is designed so that no profit is earned on
the commodity portion of sales to firm customers. All customers who purchase
natural gas from another supplier continue to use NJNG for transportation
service.  

  Total utility firm
gross margin decreased   $1.0 million,
or less than 1   percent, and $1.2 million, or
less than 1 percent, in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. The change in
fiscal 2006 was due primarily to the net effect of:  

             the
decrease in natural gas used by customers, as the winter heating season was
11.4 percent warmer compared with fiscal 2005; 

             a
reduction in customer usage per degree day over the same period in fiscal 2005;
partially offset by 

             an
increase in fixed revenue as a result of customer growth; and 

             the
impact of the WNC. 

  The decrease in fiscal 2005 in comparison with fiscal
2004, was due primarily to a reduction in customer usage per degree day.  

43  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

NJNG added 10,159 and 10,435 new customers and added
natural gas heat and other services to another 874 and 929 existing customers
in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. This customer growth represents an
estimated annual increase of approximately 1.6 billion cubic feet (Bcf) in
sales to firm customers, assuming normal weather and usage.  

  The weather in fiscal 2006 was 9.9 percent warmer than
normal, therefore NJNG accrued $10.3 million of utility   gross margin for future recovery under the WNC. In fiscal
2005, the weather was 1.5 percent colder than normal, therefore NJNG deferred
$2.1 million of gross margin for future refunds to customers under the WNC. The
weather in fiscal 2004 was 1.1 percent warmer than normal, which resulted in no
deferral or accrual of utility gross margin. On October 25, 2006, NJNG
filed supporting documentation for the fiscal 2006 WNC surcharge and proposed
the required rate increase of approximately 1.3 percent be effective on January 1,
2007.  

  Utility firm gross margin from sales to residential
and commercial customers decreased $642,000,   or
less than 1 percent, and increased $503,000, or less than 1 percent, in
fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. Sales to residential and commercial
customers were 49.8   Bcf in fiscal
2006, compared with 55.0 Bcf in fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
decrease in utility firm gross margin in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005
was due primarily to a warmer winter season, along with the lower usage per
degree day, which was partially offset by customer growth. The increase in
utility firm gross margin in fiscal 2005 from 2004 was due primarily to
customer growth and colder than normal temperatures, partially offset by lower
usage per degree day.  

  Utility firm gross margin from transportation service
decreased $359,000,   or   1.6 percent, and $1.7 million, or 6.9 percent, in
fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. NJNG transported 7.4 Bcf for its
firm customers in fiscal 2006, compared with 7.6 Bcf in fiscal 2005 and 8.4 Bcf
in fiscal 2004. The decreases were due primarily to a reduction in customers
utilizing the transportation service as a result of warmer weather and lower
usage per degree day discussed above.  

  The
following table shows residential and commercial customers using transportation
services as of the end of each fiscal year:  

The decrease in transportation customers for all
fiscal years was due primarily to a decline in third-party marketing efforts in
NJNG s service territory. The increase in commercial customers for all fiscal
years, was due primarily to the change to monthly based pricing.  

  In fiscal 2007 and 2008, NJNG currently expects to add
approximately 9,900 and 10,400, new customers, respectively, and convert an
additional 700 existing customers each year to natural gas heat and other
services. Achieving these expectations would represent an estimated annual
customer growth rate of approximately 2.2 percent and result in an estimated
sales increase of approximately 1.5 Bcf annually. It is believed that this
growth would increase utility gross margin under present base   

44     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)   

rates by approximately $4.8
million annually, as calculated under NJNG s CIP tariff, which is effective October 1,
2006.  

  These growth expectations are
based upon management s review of local planning board data, recent market
research performed by third parties, builder surveys and studies of population
growth rates in NJNG s service territory. However, future sales will be
affected by the weather, actual energy usage   patterns
of NJNG s customers ,  economic
conditions in NJNG s service territory, conversion and conservation activity,
the impact of changing from a regulated to a competitive environment, changes
in state regulation and other marketing efforts, as has been the case in prior
years.  

    Incentive Programs    

  To reduce the overall cost of its natural gas supply
commitments, NJNG has entered into contracts to sell natural gas to wholesale
customers outside its franchise territory when the natural gas is not needed
for system requirements. These off-system sales enable NJNG to spread its fixed
demand costs, which are charged by pipelines to access their supplies
year-round, over a larger and more diverse customer base. The off-system sales
program includes an incentive mechanism which shares the gains and losses on
the program between customers and shareowners on an 85 percent and 15 percent
basis, respectively. NJNG also participates in the capacity release market on
the interstate pipeline network when the capacity is not needed for its firm
system requirements.  

  The financial risk management (FRM) program is
designed to provide price stability to NJNG s natural gas supply portfolio. The
FRM program includes an incentive mechanism designed to encourage the use of
financial instruments to hedge NJNG s natural gas costs, with a sharing of the
costs and results between customers and shareowners, on an 80 percent and 20
percent basis, respectively.  

  The storage incentive program shares gains and losses
between customers and shareowners, on an 80 percent and 20 percent basis,
respectively. This program measures the difference between the actual cost of
natural gas in storage and a benchmark applicable to the April-through-October injection
season.  

  On April 12, 2006, the BPU approved an agreement
whereby the existing utility gross margin-sharing programs between customers
and shareowners were extended through October 31, 2007.  

  NJNG s incentive programs
totaled 38.4 Bcf and generated $7.4 million of utility gross margin in fiscal
2006, compared with 52.4 Bcf and $6.1 million of utility gross margin in fiscal
2005 and 47.1 Bcf and $5.8 million of
utility gross margin in fiscal 2004. Utility gross margin from incentive
programs comprised 4 percent of total utility gross margin in fiscal 2006 and 3
percent of total utility gross margin in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
increases in utility gross margin in fiscal 2006 and 2005, were
primarily due to the FRM and the storage incentive programs, which both
benefited from additional volatility in the wholesale energy market.  

45     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)    

Interruptible    

  NJNG serves 48 customers
through interruptible sales and/or transportation tariffs. Sales made under the
interruptible sales tariff are priced on market-sensitive energy parity
rates. Although therms sold and
transported to interruptible customers represented 7 percent of total
throughput in fiscal 2006, 7.8 percent of total throughput in fiscal 2005 and 7.5 percent of the total
throughput in fiscal 2004, they accounted for less than 1 percent of the total
utility gross margin in each year due to the sharing formulas that govern these
sales. Under these formulas, NJNG retains 10 percent of the utility gross
margin from interruptible sales and 5 percent of the utility gross margin from
transportation sales, with 90 percent and 95 percent, respectively, credited to
firm sales customers through the BGSS. Interruptible sales were 2.0 Bcf and 2.9
Bcf in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, NJNG transported 5.2
Bcf and 6.8 Bcf in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, for its interruptible
customers.  

    Operation and Maintenance Expense    

  Operation
and maintenance expense increased $8.4 million, or 10.9 percent, in fiscal 2006
as compared with fiscal 2005. The increase was due primarily to higher
regulatory costs, increased labor costs and an increase in bad debt expense.
Higher regulatory costs are due primarily to the new CIP program costs and
higher BPU assessments. Increased labor costs are due primarily to annual wage
increases and the absence of certain credits associated with incentive
compensation benefits in the prior year that did not recur in the current year.
Increased bad debt expense is due primarily to increased natural gas prices.
Operation and maintenance expense decreased $910,000, or 1.2 percent, in fiscal
year 2005, compared with fiscal year 2004, due primarily to lower costs
associated with incentive compensation plans, decreased labor costs and lower information
technology maintenance costs, which more than offset NJNG s share of the early
retirement charge.  

    Depreciation Expense    

  Depreciation expense increased
$1.2 million in fiscal 2006 and $1.1 million in fiscal 2005 due primarily to
utility plant additions of $53.1 million and $52.8 million, respectively.  

    Operating Income    

  Operating income decreased
$9.4 million, or 9.7 percent, in fiscal 2006, compared with fiscal 2005, due
primarily to higher Operation and maintenance expense, and higher depreciation
expense, as described above. Operating income decreased $1.3 million, or 1.3
percent, in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004, due primarily to the lower
gross margin and higher depreciation expense, partially offset by lower
Operation and maintenance expense, as described above.  

46     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)   

Interest Charges    

  Interest charges increased
$2.2 million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to higher
average interest rates on variable rate long- and short-term debt and interest
costs payable to customers on overrecovered BGSS balances. In fiscal 2005,
interest increased $1.5 million reflecting higher average interest rates on
both long- and short-term debt.  

    Net Income    

  Net income decreased $6.5
million, or 12.2 percent, in fiscal 2006, compared with fiscal 2005, due
primarily to lower operating income and higher interest expense as previously
discussed. Net income decreased $2.1 million, or 3.9 percent, in fiscal 2005,
compared with fiscal 2004, due primarily to lower operating income discussed
above, lower other income due to reduced interest income earned on various
deferred regulatory riders and higher interest expense as previously discussed.  

    Energy Services Operations    

  NJRES 
financial results are summarized as follows:  

NJRES  operating revenues increased $160.3 million, or
8.1 percent, in fiscal 2006   as compared
with fiscal 2005 and increased $391.2
million in fiscal 2005, as compared with fiscal 2004, due primarily to higher natural
gas prices. Natural gas sold and managed by NJRES totaled 228.7   Bcf in fiscal 2006, compared with 254.7 Bcf in fiscal 2005 and 263.3 Bcf in
fiscal 2004.  

  NJRES  gross margin is defined as natural gas revenues
and management fees less natural gas purchases, which include fixed demand
costs. NJRES  gross margin increased $31.7 million in fiscal 2006, as
compared with fiscal 2005, due primarily to favorable time spreads on larger
storage asset positions, as well as, securing positive locational spreads on
transportation capacity, and the benefit in market price changes from certain
natural gas basis swaps, which concluded in October 2006, that were not
deemed effective cash flow hedges, under SFAS 133.  

47     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)   

NJRES  gross margin increased $7.1 million in
fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004, due primarily to favorable time spreads
on storage asset positions, as well as to favorable locational spreads on
transportation capacity.  

  NJRES  Operation and maintenance expense increased
$9.5 million in fiscal 2006 as compared with fiscal 2005, due primarily to
higher labor costs incurred to support earnings growth associated with
operational expansion and increased charitable contributions. Operation and
maintenance expense remained relatively consistent in fiscal 2005 as compared
with fiscal 2004.  

  NJRES  net income increased $11.6 million in
fiscal 2006, as compared with fiscal 2005, and $2.9 million in fiscal 2005, as
compared with fiscal 2004, due primarily to the increase in gross margin
described above.  

  Future results are subject to
NJRES  ability to maintain and expand its wholesale marketing activities and
are contingent upon many other factors, including an adequate number of
appropriate counterparties, volatility in the natural gas market, sufficient
liquidity in the energy trading market and continued access to the capital
markets.  

    Retail and Other Operations    

  The
consolidated financial results of Retail and Other are summarized as follows:  

Operating revenues in fiscal 2006 decreased $9.3
million compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to the sale of a commercial
office building owned by CR R in fiscal 2005 that did not recur in fiscal
2006. Excluding the impact of this sale, fiscal 2006 operating revenues
increased approximately $800,000 due to an increase in NJRHS appliance service
contracts and installations. Operating revenues increased $14.2 million in
fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004, due primarily to the sale of a
commercial office building as well as the sale of other commercial real estate
property and increased service contracts and installations.  

  Other income includes the amortization of a gain
related to the sale-leaseback of a building, entered into in fiscal 1996, and
pre-tax earnings generated from NJR Energy s equity investment in Iroquois of
$2.0 million, $1.7 million and $1.2 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004
respectively.  

  Net income in fiscal 2005,
included a $6 million after-tax gain on the sale of the commercial office
building, partially offset by the $2.5 million after-tax loss on the impairment
of 52 acres of undeveloped land. Net of these items and this segment s portion
of the early retirement charge, earnings in fiscal 2005 totaled $3.3 million.
Excluding these items, net income increased by $300,000 in fiscal 2006, as
compared with fiscal 2005, due primarily to improved operating results at NJRHS
and by $900,000 in fiscal 2005, as compared with fiscal 2004, due to higher
earnings in Iroquois and gains on the sale of other equity investments.  

48  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

   Consolidated   

  NJR s objective is to maintain a consolidated capital
structure that reflects the different characteristics of each business segment
and provides adequate financial flexibility for accessing capital markets as
required.  

  NJR s
consolidated capital structure at September 30 was as follows:  

NJR satisfies its external common equity requirements,
if any, through issuances of its common stock, including the proceeds from
stock issuances under its Automatic Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) and
proceeds from the exercise of options issued under the Company s long-term
incentive program. The DRP allows NJR, at its option, to use shares purchased
on the open market or newly issued shares.  

   The
Company currently has a 3.5 million share repurchase plan.  As of September 30,
2006, the Company had repurchased 3.15 million shares of its common stock under
this plan.  

  In December 2004 , 
NJR entered into a $275-million committed credit facility with several
banks, with a 3-year term expiring in December 2007. In November 2005,
NJR amended the facility to increase it to $325 million.  

  In October 2006, NJRES entered into a 3-year
$30 million committed credit facility with a multinational financial institution.
Borrowings under this facility are guaranteed by NJR.  

  These facilities provide liquidity to meet working
capital and external debt-financing requirements of NJR and its nonregulated
companies. Neither NJNG nor its assets are obligated or pledged to support the
NJR or NJRES facilities .   

  NJR s short-term debt at September 30, 2006,
which is primarily on behalf of NJRES, decreased to $129.2 million from $174.1
million at September 30, 2005. The decrease is due primarily to reduced
margin calls, which were a result of increased over-the-counter transactions
and lower gas prices. NJRES  use of high-injection, high-withdrawal storage
facilities and anticipated pipeline park-and-loan arrangements, combined with
related hedging activities in the volatile wholesale natural gas market, create
significant short-term cash requirements, which are funded by NJR.  

  NJR borrows under its committed credit facilities to
fund the debt requirements of its nonregulated subsidiaries and its working
capital and investment activity. NJR currently anticipates that its financing
requirements in fiscal 2007 and 2008 will be met through internally generated
cash and the issuance of long- and short-term debt.  

49     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

Financial covenants contained in NJR s credit facility
include a maximum debt-to-total capitalization of 65 percent and minimum
interest coverage ratio of 2.5. At September 30, 2006, the debt-to-total
capitalization was 52 percent, and for the year ended September 30, 2006,
the interest coverage ratio, as defined in the credit facility, was 7.  

  NJNG satisfies its debt requirements by issuing long-
and short-term debt based upon its own financial profile. NJNG does not
guarantee or otherwise directly support the debt of NJR. The seasonal nature of
NJNG s operations creates large short-term cash requirements, primarily to
finance natural gas purchases and customer accounts receivable. NJNG obtains
working capital for these requirements, and for the temporary financing of
construction and MGP remediation expenditures and energy tax payments, through
the issuance of its commercial paper and short-term bank loans.  

  To support the issuance of commercial paper in December 2004,
NJNG entered into a $225 million committed credit facility with several banks,
with a 5-year term, expiring in December 2009. In November 2005,
NJNG amended this facility to increase it to $250 million. NJNG had $151.5 million of commercial
paper borrowings supported by NJNG s committed credit facilities as of September 30,
2006 and no commercial paper borrowings as of September 30, 2005.  

  NJNG has received approximately $4.1 million, $4.9
million and $3.9 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, related
to the sale-leaseback of a portion of its gas meters. NJNG also plans to
continue its meter sale-leaseback program at approximately $5 million annually.  

50     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

The
following table is a summary of NJR contractual cash obligations and their
applicable payment due dates:  

*     These obligations include an interest
component. 

  As of September 30, 2006, there were NJR guarantees covering approximately $232
million of natural gas purchases and demand fee commitments of NJRES and
NJNG, included in natural gas supply purchase obligations above, not yet
reflected in Accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

  As of September 30, 2006, NJR had a $4.0 million letter
of credit outstanding on behalf of NJRES, which will expire on August 1,
2007, in conjunction with a long-term natural gas storage agreement  

  At September 30, 2006, NJR had a $675,000 letter
of credit outstanding on behalf of CR R, which will expire on December 3,
2007, in conjunction with development activities.  

  These letters of credit reduce the amount available
under NJR s committed credit facility by the same amount. NJR does not
anticipate that these letters of credit will be drawn upon by the counterparties
and they will be renewed as necessary. NJR expects to renew these letter of
credit agreements upon their expiration.  

  As of September 30, 2006, NJNG had a $45 million
letter of credit outstanding which will expire on December 31, 2006, in
conjunction with a long-term swap agreement. The long-term swap agreement was
entered into as a hedge related to an offsetting physical purchase of natural
gas for the same time period and volume. This letter of credit reduces the
amount available under NJNG s committed credit facility by the same amount.
NJNG does not anticipate that this letter of credit will be drawn upon by the
counterparty and it will be renewed as necessary upon its expiration.  

51     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

The Company made a discretionary $10 million
tax-deductible contribution to its pension plans in fiscal 2006. The Company is
not currently required to make minimum pension funding contributions during
fiscal 2007. If market performance is less than anticipated, additional funding
may be required.  

  In fiscal 2006, $3.7 million
of tax-deductible discretionary contributions were made to the Other
Postemployment Benefit (OPEB) plans. The Company s funding level to its OPEB
plans is expected to be approximately $600,000 annually over the next five
years. Additional contributions to the pension and OPEB Plans may be made based
on market conditions and various assumptions.  

   Off-Balance-Sheet
Arrangements   

  The Company does not have any
off-balance-sheet financing arrangements.  

    Cash Flow    

   Operating Activities   

  Cash flow used in operations totaled   $22.9 million
in fiscal 2006, compared with cash flow   from
operations of $204.8 million in fiscal 2005 and cash flow used in operations
of $50.1 million in fiscal 2004. The decrease of approximately $228
million in fiscal 2006, as compared with fiscal 2005, was due primarily to
changes in working capital and higher MGP expenditures, which were partially
offset by higher net income and a lower gain on asset sale. The reduction in
cash flow from working capital was due primarily to the increase in gas in
storage and a decrease in gas purchases payable, which were caused by higher
storage volumes and wholesale gas commodity costs, partially offset by a
decrease in accounts receivable, primarily as the result of BGSS customer
credits in September 2006. The increase in fiscal 2005, as compared with fiscal
2004, was due primarily to higher net income and improved working capital. The
improvement in working capital was due primarily to the reduction in broker
margin requirements and underrecovered   gas costs,
which was partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable.  

  NJNG s MGP expenditures,
exclusive of insurance recoveries, are currently expected to total $30.4
million and $17.6 million in fiscal 2007 and 2008, respectively.  

   Financing Activities   

  Cash flow provided by financing activities totaled
$74.0   million in fiscal 2006, compared
with cash flows used in financing activities of $157.7 million in fiscal
2005 and cash flows provided by financing activities of $139.8 million in
fiscal 2004. The change in fiscal 2006 was due primarily to an increase in
amount of short-term debt utilized, increased issuance of long-term debt and
increased proceeds from the exercise of stock options partially offset by
higher common stock repurchases. The change in fiscal 2005 was due primarily to
the payment of long-term debt, greater share repurchases and a reduction in
short-term debt.  

  In March 2004, NJNG issued $60 million of
Unsecured Senior Notes with a 10-year maturity and 4.77 percent interest
rate and NJR issued $25 million of Unsecured Senior Notes with a 5-year  

52     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

maturity and 3.75 percent
interest rate. Neither NJNG nor its assets are obligated or pledged to support
the NJR notes.  

  In December 2003, NJNG entered into a loan
agreement under which the New Jersey Economic Development Authority (EDA)
loaned NJNG the proceeds from its $12 million, 5% Natural Gas Facilities
Revenue Bonds, which NJNG deposited into a construction fund and which are
supported by NJNG s 5% Series HH Bonds. NJNG drew down $1.5 million,
$6.3 million and $4.2 million in September 2005, December 2004 and December 2003,
respectively ,  from the construction fund.  

  In October 2005, NJNG entered into a loan
agreement under which the EDA loaned NJNG the proceeds from $35.8 million of
tax-exempt EDA Bonds consisting of $10.3 million 4.5% (Series 2005A) and
$10.5 million 4.6% (Series 2005B) Revenue Refunding Bonds, and $15 million
4.9% (Series 2005C) Natural Gas Facilities Revenue Bonds. NJNG used the
proceeds from the Series A and B bonds to refinance NJNG s $10.3 million
5.38% Series W First Mortgage Bonds and its $10.5 million 6.25% Series Y
First Mortgage Bonds, respectively.  

  The entire $15 million
proceeds from the Series 2005C bonds were deposited into a construction
fund. The Series 2005C Bonds are supported by NJNG s 4.9% Series KK
Bonds that mature on October 1, 2040. NJNG immediately drew down
$2.5 million from the construction fund in October 2005 and an
additional $4.0 million in September 2006.  

   Investing Activities   

  Cash flows used in investing activities totaled $71.1
million   in fiscal 2006, compared with
$27.2 million and $86.5 million in fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
change in fiscal 2006 was due primarily to the cash proceeds from a commercial
office building sale in fiscal 2005, which did not recur in fiscal 2006 and
additional deposits in the construction fund associated with the EDA financing agreement,
partially offset by the absence of additional equity investments. The change in
fiscal 2005 was due primarily to the $30.6 million in cash proceeds generated
from the sale of a commercial office building, a reduction in capital
expenditures and the drawdown of $7.8 million from the construction fund
created under the EDA financing arrangement. These improvements were partially
offset by an $8.7 million equity investment to increase the Company s ownership
interest in Iroquois.  

  The
Company s capital expenditures for fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2006 and
projected capital requirements for fiscal years 2007 and 2008 are as follows:  

NJNG s capital expenditures result primarily from the
need for services, mains and meters to support its continued customer growth,
pipeline safety rulemaking and general system improvements. NJNG s capital
expenditures are expected to increase in fiscal 2007 and 2008 when compared to
the   

53     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 

capital spending in fiscal
2006, due primarily to system integrity and expected replacement needed under
pending pipeline safety rulemaking.  

  NJRES does not currently anticipate any significant
capital expenditures in fiscal 2007 and 2008.  

  Retail and Other capital expenditures each year were
primarily made in connection with investments aimed at developing its real
estate holdings. At September 30,
2006, CR R owned 99 acres of undeveloped land and 5 acres of land
currently under development. In fiscal 2006, capital expenditures of
$5.5 million were primarily related to CR R s construction of a 56,400-square-foot
office building. In December 2004, CR R sold a 200,000 square-foot office
building, which generated $30.6 million in proceeds and resulted in a
$10.1 million pre-tax gain. Other real estate sales generated proceeds of
$2 million.  

  Retail and Other s anticipated
capital expenditures of $4.6 million in fiscal 2007 are primarily related to
CR R s construction and completion of a 56,400 square-foot office building.  

   Credit Ratings   

  The table
below summarizes NJNG s credit ratings issued by two rating entities, Standard
and Poor s (S P) and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody s) as of
September 30, 2006:  

S   P   

Moody s     

Corporate Rating  

A+  

N/A  

Commercial Paper  

A-1  

P-1  

Senior Secured  

AA-  

Aa3  

Ratings Outlook  

Negative  

Stable  

NJNG s S P and Moody s
Senior Secured ratings are investment-grade ratings and represent the sixth
highest rating within the investment grade category. Moody s and S P give
NJNG s commercial paper the highest rating within the Commercial Paper
investment-grade category. Investment-grade ratings are generally divided into
three groups: high, upper medium and medium. NJNG s senior secured ratings and
the commercial paper ratings fall into the high group. NJR is not a rated entity.  

  NJNG is not party to any lending agreements that would
accelerate the maturity date of any obligation caused by a failure to maintain
any specific credit rating. A rating set forth above is not a recommendation to
buy, sell or hold the Company s or NJNG s securities and may be subject to
revision or withdrawal at any time. Each rating set forth above should be
evaluated independently of any other rating.  

  The timing and mix of any
external financings will target a common equity ratio that is consistent with
maintaining the Company s current short- and long-term credit ratings.  

54  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     

Financial Risk
Management     

   Commodity Market Risks   

  Natural gas is a nationally traded commodity, and its
prices are determined effectively by the New York Mercantile Exchange
(NYMEX) and over-the-counter markets. The prices on the NYMEX and
over-the-counter markets generally reflect the notional balance of natural gas
supply and demand, but are also influenced significantly from time to time by
other events.  

  The regulated and unregulated natural gas businesses
of the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to market risk due to
fluctuations in the price of natural gas. To hedge against such fluctuations,
the Company and its subsidiaries have entered into futures contracts, options
agreements and swap agreements. To manage these instruments, the Company has
well-defined risk management policies and procedures that include daily
monitoring of volumetric limits and monetary guidelines. The Company s natural
gas businesses are conducted through three of its operating subsidiaries.
First, NJNG is a regulated utility that uses futures, options and swaps to
hedge against price fluctuations and its recovery of natural gas costs is
governed by the BPU. Second, NJRES uses futures, options and swaps to hedge
purchases and sales of natural gas. Finally, NJR Energy has entered into two
swap transactions to hedge an 18-year fixed-price contract to sell
remaining volumes of approximately 9.7 Bcf of natural gas (Gas Sales Contract)
to an energy marketing company. NJR Energy has hedged both the price and
physical delivery risks associated with the Gas Sales Contract.  

  The
following table reflects the changes in the fair market value of commodity
derivatives from September 30, 2005, to September 30, 2006:  

There were no changes in methods of valuations during
the year ended September 30, 2006.  

  The
following is a summary of fair market value of commodity derivatives at September 30,
2006, by method of valuation and by maturity for each fiscal year period:  

55     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued)   

The
following is a summary of commodity derivatives by type as of September 30,
2006:  

The Company uses a
value-at-risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk of its net futures, swaps
and options positions. The VaR at September 30, 2006, using the variance-covariance
method with a 95 percent confidence level and a 1-day holding period, was
$600,000. The VaR with a 99 percent confidence level and a 10-day holding
period was $2.5 million. The calculated VaR represents an estimate of the
potential change in the value of the net positions. These estimates may not be
indicative of actual results because actual market fluctuations may differ from
forecasted fluctuations.  

   Wholesale Credit Risk   

  NJNG, NJRES and NJR Energy engage in wholesale
marketing activities. NJR monitors and manages the credit risk of its wholesale
marketing operations through credit policies and procedures that management
believes reduce overall credit risk. These policies include a review and
evaluation of prospective counterparties  financial statements and/or credit
ratings, daily monitoring of counterparties  credit limits, daily communication
with traders regarding credit status and the use of credit mitigation measures,
such as minimum margin requirements, collateral requirements and netting
agreements. Examples of collateral include letters of credit and cash received
for either prepayment or margin deposit.  

  The Company s Risk Management Committee (RMC)
continuously monitors NJR s credit risk management policies and procedures. The
RMC is a group of senior officers from NJR-affiliated companies that meets
twice a month and, among other things, evaluates the effectiveness of existing
credit policies and procedures, reviews material transactions and discusses
emerging issues.  

  Following is a summary of gross and net credit
exposures, grouped by investment and noninvestment grade counterparties, as of September 30,
2006. Gross credit exposure is defined as the unrealized fair value of
derivative and energy trading contracts plus any outstanding receivable for the
value of natural gas delivered for which payment has not yet been received. Net
credit exposure is defined as gross credit exposure reduced by collateral
received from counterparties and/or payables, where netting agreements exist.
The amounts presented below exclude accounts receivable for retail natural gas
sales and services.  

56  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued)   

Unregulated
counterparty credit exposure as of September 30, 2006, is as follows:  

NJNG s
counterparty credit exposure as of September 30, 2006, is as follows:  

Due to the inherent volatility
in the prices of natural gas commodities and derivatives, the market value of
contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established
credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If a counterparty
failed to perform the obligations under its contract (for example, failed to
deliver or pay for natural gas), then the Company could sustain a loss. This
loss would comprise the loss on natural gas delivered but not paid for and/or
the cost of replacing natural gas not delivered at a price higher than the
price in the original contract. Any such loss could have a material impact on
the Company s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

   Interest
Rate Risk Long-Term Debt   

  At September 30, 2006, the Company (excluding
NJNG) had no variable-rate long-term debt.  

  At September 30, 2006,
NJNG had total variable-rate, tax-exempt long-term debt of $97.1 million, which
is hedged by interest rate caps expiring in July 2009 that limit NJNG s
variable-rate debt exposure from the tax-exempt EDA bonds at 4.5 percent.  

   Effects
of Inflation   

  Although inflation rates have been relatively low to
moderate in recent years, any change in price levels has an effect on operating
results due to the capital-intensive and regulated nature of the Company s
principal subsidiary. The Company attempts to minimize the effects of inflation
through cost control, productivity improvements and regulatory actions where
appropriate.  

57     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     

Management s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting     

  Management of New Jersey Resources (NJR or the Company) is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting as defined in Rule 13A-15 (f) and 15d-15 (f) of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control system
was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company s management and
Board of Directors as to the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements,
errors or fraud. Also, projections of any evaluations of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006. In
making this assessment, management used criteria set forth by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment, management concluded
that as of September 30, 2006, the Company s internal control over
financial reporting is operating as designed and is effective based on the COSO
criteria.  

  Our independent registered
public accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued its report
on our assessment of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2006 which appears herein.  

  November 22, 2006  

58     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
New Jersey Resources Corporation:  

  We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that New
Jersey Resources and subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinions.  

  A company s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control
over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud
may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial
reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

59     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

In our opinion, management s assessment that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of
capitalization of the Company as of September 30, 2006, the related
consolidated statements of income, common stock equity and comprehensive
income, and cash flows for the year ended September 30, 2006 and the
consolidated financial statement schedule for the year ended September 30,
2006 listed in the index in Item 15, and our report dated November 22,
2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements and consolidated financial statement schedule, and included an
explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards
Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations.  

  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE
LLP  

  Parsippany, New Jersey  

  November 22, 2006  

60     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
New Jersey Resources Corporation  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
consolidated statements of capitalization of New Jersey Resources Corporation
and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and
the related consolidated statements of income, common stock equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 2006. Our audits also included the consolidated
financial statement schedule listed in the index in Item 15. These consolidated
financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedule based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of September 30,
2006 and 2005, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also,
in our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects, the information set forth therein.  

  As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements,
on September 30, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards
Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations.  

  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated November 22,
2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting and an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting.  

  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Parsippany, New Jersey  

  November 22, 2006  

61  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME     

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     62  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS
OF CASH FLOWS     

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     63  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS     

   ASSETS     

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     64  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

CAPITALIZATION AND
LIABILITIES   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     65  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION     

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     66  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS
OF COMMON STOCK EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     67  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  
(Continued)   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

1. SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES     

   Nature of the business   

  New Jersey Resources Corporation (NJR or the Company)
has two principal subsidiaries and operates three business segments. New Jersey
Natural Gas (NJNG), the Company s principal utility subsidiary, is a public
utility which provides natural gas utility service to approximately 471,000
retail customers in central and northern New Jersey and comprises the Natural
Gas Distribution segment. NJNG is subject to rate regulation by the New Jersey
Board of Public Utilities (BPU).  

  NJR Energy Services (NJRES) is the Company s principal
non-utility subsidiary that maintains and trades a portfolio of natural gas
storage and transportation positions and provides wholesale energy and energy
management services to customers from states in the Gulf Coast and
Mid-Continent to New England and Canada. NJRES comprises the Energy Services
segment.  

  Other subsidiaries of the
Company include NJR Home Services (NJRHS), which provides services and
installation of heating, ventilation and cooling (HVAC) systems throughout New
Jersey; NJNR Pipeline (NJNR), which holds the Company s 5.53 percent interest
in Iroquois Gas and Transmission System, L.P (Iroquois); NJR Energy, an
investor in energy-related ventures; Commercial Realty and Resources
(CR R), which holds and develops commercial real estate; NJR Service, which
provides shared administrative services; and NJR Investment, which makes
energy-related equity investments, all of which comprise the Retail and Other
segment.  

   Principles of
Consolidation   

  The Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.  

   Regulatory Assets  
Liabilities   

  Under cost-based regulation, regulated utility
enterprises generally are permitted to recover their operating expenses and
earn a reasonable return on their utility investment.  

  NJNG maintains its accounts in
accordance with the Uniform System of Accounts as prescribed by the BPU. In
accordance with the ratemaking process, NJNG is required to follow Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71,   Accounting
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation   (SFAS 71), and as a
result, the accounting principles applied by NJNG differ in certain respects
from those applied by unregulated businesses.  

   Derivative Instruments   

  Derivative instruments associated with natural gas
commodity contracts are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , 
as amended (SFAS 133), under which NJR records the fair value of derivatives
held as assets and liabilities. NJR s unregulated subsidiaries record changes
in the fair value of the effective portion of   

68     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

derivatives qualifying as cash
flow hedges, net of tax, in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, a component
of total Common stock equity in the Consolidated Statements of Capitalization.
Under SFAS 133, NJR also has certain derivative instruments that do not qualify
as hedges. The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded in Gas
purchases on the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, the changes in
the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivatives qualifying for hedge
accounting are recorded as increases or decreases in natural gas costs or
interest expense, as applicable, based on the nature of the derivatives.  

  Fair values of exchange-traded instruments,
principally futures, swaps and certain options, are based on actively quoted
market prices. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect
management s best estimate based on various factors. In establishing the fair
value of commodity contracts that do not have quoted prices, such as physical
contracts, over-the-counter options and swaps, management uses available market
data and pricing models to estimate fair values. Estimating fair values of
instruments that do not have quoted market prices requires management s
judgment in determining amounts which could reasonably be expected to be
received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the instruments.
These amounts could be materially different from amounts that might be realized
in an actual sale transaction.  

  See  Note 5.    Financial Instruments and Risk Management  for additional
details regarding natural gas trading and hedging activities.  

  NJNG s derivatives used to hedge its natural gas
purchasing activities are recoverable through its Basic Gas Supply Service
(BGSS), a component of its tariff. Accordingly, the offset to the change in
fair value of these derivatives is recorded as a Regulatory asset or liability
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

  NJR has not designated any
derivatives as fair value hedges as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.  

   Revenues   

  Revenues from the sale of natural gas to customers of
NJNG are recognized in the period that gas is delivered and consumed by
customers, including an estimate for unbilled revenue.  

  Unbilled revenues are associated solely with NJNG.
Natural gas sales to individual customers are based on their meter readings,
which are performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of
each month, the amount of natural gas delivered to each customer after the last
meter reading is estimated and NJNG recognizes unbilled revenues related to
these amounts. The unbilled revenue estimates are based on monthly send-out
amounts, estimated customer usage by customer type, weather effects,
unaccounted-for gas and the most recent rates.  

  Generally, NJRES  commodity contracts fall within the  normal
purchase normal sale  scope exception of SFAS 133 or are designated as a hedge
for accounting purposes. The normal purchase normal sale scope exception
requires, among other things, physical delivery in quantities expected to be
used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business.
Contracts that are designated as normal purchases and normal sales are
accounted for under accrual accounting and, therefore, are not recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value. For certain transactions that are designed to
hedge the cash flows of a forecasted transaction, the effective portion of the
hedge is   

69     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income, a component of Common stock equity on the Consolidated
Statements of Capitalization, and subsequently reclassified into earnings when
the forecasted transaction is completed or settled. Any ineffective portion of
the hedge is immediately reflected in earnings. Any commodity contract that
does not meet the normal purchase normal sale exception, or does not qualify as
a hedge, is recorded at its fair value as a component of operating revenues.  

  NJRES revenues from the sale of energy management
services are a combination of a base service fee and incentive-based
arrangements and are recognized as the services are performed and as the
incentives are realized over the term of the agreement.  

  Revenues from all other
activities are recorded in the period during which products or services are
delivered and accepted by customers, or over the related contractual term.  

   Gas Purchases   

  NJNG s tariff includes a component for BGSS, which is
normally revised on an annual basis. Under the BGSS, NJNG projects its cost of
natural gas, net of supplier refunds, the impact of hedging activities and
credits from nonfirm sales and transportation activities, and recovers or
refunds the difference, if any, of such projected costs compared with those
included in prices through levelized charges to customers. Any underrecoveries
or overrecoveries are deferred and, subject to BPU approval, reflected in the BGSS
in subsequent years.  

  NJRES gas purchases represent
the total commodity contract cost, recognized upon completion of the
transaction, for the commodity contracts that are either designated as a hedge
for accounting purposes or qualify for the normal purchase normal sale scope
exception under SFAS 133.  

   Income Taxes   

  The Company computes income taxes using the liability
method, whereby deferred income taxes are generally determined based on the
difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the
differences are expected to reverse. Net deferred tax assets are recorded when
it is more likely than not such tax benefits will be realized.  S ee  Note 9. Income Taxes .  

  Investment tax credits have
been deferred and are being amortized as a reduction to the tax provision over
the average lives of the related properties.  

   Capitalized and
Deferred Interest   

  The Company s
capitalized interest totaled $1.1 million in fiscal 2006, $594,000 in fiscal
2005 and $660,000 in fiscal 2004 with average interest rates of 4.7   percent, 2.6 percent and 1.9 percent, respectively. These
amounts are included in Utility plant and Real estate properties on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected on the Consolidated Statements of
Income as a reduction to Interest charges, net. NJNG does not capitalize a cost
of equity for its utility plant construction activities.  

70     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Pursuant to a BPU order, NJNG
is permitted to recover carrying costs on uncollected balances related to
underrecovered natural gas costs incurred through October 31, 2001, and
its manufactured gas plant (MGP) remediation expenditure. See  Note 4. Regulation . Accordingly, Other income included $2.3 million, $1.8 million and
$4 million of interest related to underrecovered gas costs and MGP remediation
in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

   Sales Tax Accounting   

  Sales tax
and Transitional Energy Facilities Assessment (TEFA) are collected from
customers and presented in both operating revenues and operating expenses on
the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:  

Statements of Cash
Flows   

  For purposes of reporting cash
flows, all temporary investments with maturities of three months or less are
considered cash equivalents.  

   Utility Plant and
Depreciation   

  Regulated property, plant and equipment is stated at
original cost. Costs include direct labor, materials and third-party
construction contractor costs, allowance for capitalized interest and certain
indirect costs related to equipment and employees engaged in construction. Upon
retirement, the cost of depreciable regulated property, plus removal costs less
salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation with no gain or loss recorded.  

  Depreciation
is computed on a straight-line basis for financial statement purposes, using
rates based on the estimated average lives of the various classes of
depreciable property. The composite rate of depreciation was 3.03   percent of average depreciable property in fiscal 2006,
3.04 percent in fiscal 2005 and 3.06 percent in fiscal 2004. Property
classifications and estimated useful lives, as of September 30, 2006 and
2005, are as follows:  

Property Classifications   

Estimated Useful 
  Lives   

Distribution
  Facilities  

31 to 63 years  

Transmission
  Facilities  

42 to 62 years  

Storage Facilities  

36 to 47 years  

All other property  

5 to 35 years  

71     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets   

  The Company reviews the
carrying amount of an asset for possible impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that such amount may not be recoverable. As part of a
change in strategy related to CR R, included in its Retail and Other
segment, the Company determined in fiscal 2005 that 52 acres of undeveloped
land located in Atlantic County, New Jersey, will no longer be developed by
CR R, but will be sold as undeveloped land. As a result, the Company
estimated the fair value of the land and compared that with its carrying value.
Accordingly, the Company recognized a pretax impairment charge of $3.9 million
in fiscal 2005, which is included in Operation and Maintenance expense on
the Consolidated Statements of Income. The net book value of the undeveloped
land is included in Property, Plant   Equipment, net, on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
and 2004, no other circumstances indicating impairment were identified.  

   Available for Sale
Securities   

  Included in Other assets on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets are certain investments in equity securities
that have a fair value of $3.8 million and $3.6 million as of September 30,
2006 and 2005, respectively. Unrealized gains associated with these equity
securities, which are included as a part of Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss), a component of Common stock equity, were approximately $172,000
and $742,000 for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  

   Equity in Earnings   

  Included in Other income on the Consolidated
Statements of Income for the periods ending September 30, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, are $2.0 million, $1.7 million and $1.2 million,
respectively, of equity in pre-tax earnings, associated with NJNR s investment
in Iroquois. Iroquois is a Delaware limited partnership, which owns and
operates a 412-mile interstate natural gas transmission pipeline
providing service to local gas distribution companies, electric utilities and
electric power generators, as well as marketers and other end-users, directly
or indirectly, by connecting with pipelines and interconnects throughout the
northeastern United States. NJNR records its investment in Iroquois using the
equity method.  

  Included in Income tax expense
on the Consolidated Income Statement for the periods ending September 30,
2006, 2005 and 2004, are approximately $854,000, $706,000 and $502,000,
respectively, of income taxes related to the equity in earnings from Iroquois.  

72     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Fair Value of Assets
and Liabilities   

  The fair value of cash and temporary
investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, commercial paper and
borrowings under revolving credit facilities is estimated to equal their
carrying amounts due to the short maturity of those instruments. The estimated
fair value of long-term debt excluding current maturities and capital lease
obligations, is based on quoted market prices for similar issues and is as
follows:  

Pension and Postemployment
Plans   

  NJR has two noncontributory defined pension plans
covering substantially all employees, including officers. Benefits are based on
each employee s years of service and compensation. NJR s funding policy is to
contribute annually to these plans at least the minimum amount required under
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) of 1974 and not more than
can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. Plan assets consist of equity
securities, fixed-income securities and short-term investments. NJR contributed
$10 million and $10.9 million in aggregate to the plans in fiscal 2006 and
2005, respectively. NJR did not make a contribution to the plans in fiscal
2004.  

  NJR also provides two
primarily noncontributory medical and life insurance plans for eligible
retirees and dependents. Medical benefits, which make up the largest component
of the plans, are based upon an age and years-of-service vesting schedule and
other plan provisions. Funding of these benefits is made primarily into
Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust funds. NJR contributed $3.7
million, $638,000 and $12.6 million in aggregate to these plans in fiscal 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  

   New Accounting
Standards   

  In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48,   Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes     (FIN 48),
which alters the framework for recognizing income tax contingencies. Previously,
under SFAS No. 5,   Accounting for
Contingencies ,  the focus was on the subsequent liability
recognition for estimated losses from tax contingencies where such losses were
probable and the related amounts could be reasonably estimated. Under this new
interpretation, a contingent tax asset (i.e., an uncertain tax position) may
only be recognized if it is more likely than not that it will ultimately be
sustained upon audit. The Company will adopt FIN 48 by the commencement of
fiscal 2008. The Company is evaluating its tax positions for all jurisdictions
and all years for which the statute of limitations remains open, as well as
evaluating the impact that the adoption will have on its financial statements.  

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
 Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value as the amount
that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability, in an orderly
transaction between market participants, and establishes a fair value hierarchy
of quotes and unobservable data that should be used to develop pricing assumptions.
In addition, for   

73     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

assets and liabilities that are not actively traded,
for example, certain kinds of derivatives, SFAS 157 requires that a fair value
measurement include an adjustment for risks inherent in a valuation technique
and/or inputs, such as those used in pricing models. SFAS 157 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, however, early adoption is
permitted. The Company will adopt the provisions of the statement prospectively
and is evaluating the adoption date and its effect on its financial condition.  

  In September 2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 158,   Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit    Pension and Other
Postemployment Plans   (SFAS 158). The statement requires an employer
to recognize the funded status, measured as the difference between the fair
value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation, of its benefit
plans. SFAS 158 does not change how pensions and other postemployment benefits
are accounted for and reported in the income statement. Certain economic events,
which previously required disclosure only in the notes to the financial
statements, will be recognized as assets and liabilities and offset in
Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, on the Statement of Common
Stock Equity to the extent such amounts are not recognized in earnings as part
of net periodic benefit costs. Amounts recognized in Accumulated other
comprehensive income are adjusted as they are subsequently recognized in
earnings. The Company will adopt SFAS 158 on September 30, 2007 and will
apply the provisions of the statement prospectively. The Company is currently
evaluating the effect of adoption on its financial condition.  

   Use of Estimates   

  The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
used in the United States of America requires NJR to make estimates that affect
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosure
of contingencies during the reporting period. On a continuous basis, NJR
evaluates its estimates, including those related to the calculation of the fair
value of natural gas commodity contracts and derivative instruments, unbilled
revenues, provisions for depreciation and amortization, regulatory assets and
liabilities, income taxes, pensions and other postemployment benefits and
contingencies related to environmental matters and litigation. NJR bases its
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis
for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that
are not readily apparent from other sources. In the normal course of business
estimated amounts are subsequently adjusted to actual results that may differ
from estimates.  

74  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)     

Reclassification   

  Subsequent to the issuance of
the September 30, 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company
determined that certain of its assets associated with broker margin accounts
were incorrectly presented net as part of the Broker margin account in the
Current Liabilities section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
September 30, 2005. The Company s management has concluded that this error
was not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole,
and accordingly the September 30, 2005 balance sheet has been corrected by
reclassifying the broker margin asset amount of $120.4 million as Broker margin
account in the Current Assets section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
September 30, 2005. The September 30, 2005 Asset information included
in  Note 10. Business Segment Data  has also
been corrected to reflect this reclassification. This immaterial error had no
effect on fiscal 2005 net income or cash flows.  

   2.
LONG-TERM DEBT, DIVIDENDS AND RETAINED EARNINGS RESTRICTIONS     

  Annual
long-term debt, excluding capital leases, redemption requirements are as
follows (in millions):   

NJNG First Mortgage
Bonds   

  NJNG s mortgage secures its First Mortgage Bonds and
represents a lien on substantially all of its property, including natural gas
supply contracts. Certain indentures supplemental to the mortgage include
restrictions as to cash dividends and other distributions on NJNG s common
stock that apply as long as certain series of First Mortgage Bonds are
outstanding. Under the most restrictive
provision, approximately $176 million of NJNG s retained earnings were
available for such purposes at September 30, 2006.  

  On October 1, 2004, NJNG s $25 million, 8.25% Series Z
First Mortgage Bonds matured.  

  NJNG enters into loan agreements with the New Jersey
Economic Development Authority (the EDA) under which the EDA issues tax-exempt
bonds and the proceeds are loaned to NJNG. To secure its loans from the EDA,
NJNG issues First Mortgage Bonds to the EDA with interest rates and maturity
dates identical to those of the EDA Bonds.  

  In October 2005, NJNG entered into a loan
agreement under which the EDA loaned NJNG the proceeds from $35.8 million of
tax-exempt EDA Bonds consisting of $10.3 million, 4.5% (Series 2005A) and
$10.5 million, 4.6% (Series 2005B) Revenue Refunding Bonds; and $15
million, 4.9% (Series 2005C) Natural Gas Facilities Revenue Bonds. The Series 2005
C bonds are supported by NJNG s 4.9% Series KK bonds with a maturity date
of October 1, 2040.  

75     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

NJNG used the proceeds from the Series A and B
bonds to refinance NJNG s $10.3 million, 5.38% Series W First Mortgage
Bonds and its $10.5 million, 6.25% Series Y First Mortgage Bonds,
respectively. The proceeds from the Series 2005C bonds were deposited into
a construction fund. NJNG drew down $2.5 million from the construction fund in October 2005
and $4 million in September 2006.  

   At September 30, 2006
and 2005,  NJNG had total long-term variable-rate debt outstanding of $97.1 million. At September 30,
2006 and 2005, the weighted average interest rate on NJNG s variable rate EDA
Bonds was 3.3 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively.  

  In July 2006, NJNG
purchased interest rate caps with several banks to hedge the interest rate
exposure on its $97.1 million of tax-exempt, variable rate long-term debt with
various maturity dates ranging from 2027 to 2040. The interest rate caps expire
in July 2009 and limit NJNG s variable rate debt exposure for the
tax-exempt EDA Bonds at 4.5 percent. The interest rate caps are treated as cash
flow hedges, with changes in fair value accounted for in Accumulated other
comprehensive income.  

   NJNG Unsecured Senior
Notes   

  In March 2004, NJNG
issued $60 million of Unsecured Senior Notes with a 10-year maturity and
an interest rate of 4.77 percent. The proceeds of the Unsecured Senior Notes
were used to reduce short-term debt of NJNG.  

   NJNG Sale-Leasebacks   

  Under an agreement entered into with a financing
company in 2002, NJNG has received $4.1 million, $4.9 million and $3.9
million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, related to the
sale-leaseback of a portion of its meters. NJNG plans to continue the
sale-leaseback meter program on an annual basis.  

76     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

In December 1995,
the BPU approved NJNG s petition to enter into a master lease agreement for its
headquarters building for a 25.5-year term with two 5-year renewal
options. The present value of the agreement s minimum lease payments is
reflected as both a capital lease asset and a capital lease obligation, which are
included in Utility plant and Long-term debt, respectively, on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. In accordance with its ratemaking treatment, NJNG records rent
expense as if the lease was an operating lease.  

  Minimum
annual lease payments, under both sale-leasebacks for the meters and the
building, as of the fiscal year end are as follows (in millions):  

NJR   

  NJR had no long-term variable-rate debt outstanding at
September 30, 2006 and 2005.  

  In March 2004, NJR issued
$25 million of Unsecured Senior Notes with a 5-year maturity and an
interest rate of 3.75 percent. The proceeds of the Unsecured Senior Notes were
used to reduce short-term debt of NJR.  

   3.
SHORT-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES     

  A summary
of NJR s and NJNG s committed credit facilities, which require commitment fees
on the unused amounts, are as follows:  

77     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

NJR   

  In December 2004, NJR
entered into a $275 million committed credit facility with several banks, with
a 3-year term, expiring in December 2007. In November 2005, NJR
amended the facility to increase it to $325 million.  

  In October 2006, NJRES
entered into a 3-year $30 million committed credit facility with a
multinational financial institution. Borrowings under this facility are
guaranteed by NJR.  

  These facilities provide
liquidity to meet the working capital and external debt-financing requirements
of NJR and its nonregulated companies. Neither NJNG nor the results of its
operations are obligated or pledged to support the NJR or NJRES facilities.  

  As of September 30, 2006,
NJR had a $4.0 million letter of credit outstanding on behalf of NJRES, which
will expire on August 1, 2007, in conjunction with a long-term natural gas
storage agreement.  

  At September 30, 2006,
NJR had a $675,000 letter of credit outstanding on behalf of CR R, which
will expire on December 3, 2007, in conjunction with development
activities.These letters of credit reduce the amount available under NJR s
committed credit facility by the same amount. NJR does not anticipate that
these letters of credit will be drawn upon by the counterparties and they will be
renewed as necessary.  

   NJNG   

  In December 2004, NJNG
entered into a $225 million committed facility with several banks, with a 5-year
term expiring in December 2009, which replaced a $225 million credit
facility with a shorter term. In November 2005, NJNG amended this facility
to increase it to $250 million. This facility is used to support NJNG s
commercial paper program.  

  As of September 30, 2006,
NJNG had a $45 million letter of credit outstanding that will expire on December 31,
2006, in conjunction with a long-term swap agreement. The long-term swap
agreement was entered into as a hedge related to an offsetting physical
purchase of natural gas for the same time period and volume. This letter of
credit reduces the amount available under NJNG s committed credit facility by
the same amount. NJNG does not anticipate that this letter of credit will be
drawn upon by the counterparty and it will be renewed as necessary, upon its
expiration.  

   4.
REGULATION     

   Energy Deregulation Legislation   

  In February 1999, the
Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act (EDECA), which provided the
framework for the restructuring of New Jersey s energy market, became law. In March 2001,
the BPU issued a written order that approved a stipulation among various
parties to fully open NJNG s residential markets to competition, restructure
its prices and expand an incentive for residential and small commercial
customers to switch to transportation service. As required by EDECA, NJNG
restructured its prices to segregate its BGSS, the component of prices whereby
NJNG provides the commodity and interstate pipeline capacity to the customer,
and delivery (i.e., transportation) prices. NJNG earns no utility gross margin
on the commodity portion of its natural gas sales. NJNG earns utility gross margin
through the delivery of natural gas to its customers. Customers can choose the
supplier of their natural gas commodity.  

78     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Under EDECA, the BPU is
required to audit the state s energy utilities every two years. The primary
purpose of the audit is to ensure that utilities and their affiliates offering
unregulated retail services do not have any unfair competitive advantage over
nonaffiliated providers of similar retail services. A combined competitive
services and management audit of NJNG began in   November 2006.  

   Weather and Usage   

  For the reporting periods
through September 30, 2006, the impact of weather on NJNG s utility gross
margin had been significantly mitigated due to its Weather Normalization Clause
(WNC), however, lower customer usage per degree-day was not captured by the
WNC. NJNG has experienced lower customer usage per degree-day, which it
believes is due primarily to customer conservation resulting from an increase
in wholesale commodity costs. In order to reduce the impact of the reduction in
customer usage, NJNG filed a Conservation and Usage Adjustment (CUA) proposal
with the BPU in December 2005. On October 12, 2006, the BPU approved
a stipulation reached with the staff of the BPU and the Division of Rate
Counsel (on September 30, 2006) that modified the CUA proposal into the
Conservation Incentive Program (CIP).  

  The CIP is a three year pilot
program, designed to decouple the link between customer usage and NJNG s
utility gross margin to allow NJNG to encourage its customers to conserve
energy. For the term of the pilot the existing WNC will be suspended and
replaced with the CIP tracking mechanism which addresses utility gross margin
variations related to both weather and customer usage in comparison to
established benchmarks. Recovery of such utility gross margin variations is
subject to additional conditions including an earnings test and an evaluation
of BGSS-related savings under the CIP agreement. If NJNG does not file for a
rate review with the BPU within two years, the return on equity for the
earnings test will decline from 10.5 percent to 10.25 percent. To encourage
energy efficiency, NJNG is obligated to initiate and fund programs to further
customer conservation efforts over the term of the pilot. In September 2006,
NJNG accrued the estimated present value of this obligation, which was
approximately $1.8 million. An annual filing for the clause shall be made in June of
each year coincident with NJNG s annual BGSS filing.  

   Basic Gas Supply Service   

  On January 6, 2003, the BPU approved a statewide
BGSS agreement requiring all New Jersey natural gas utilities to make an annual
filing by each subsequent June 1 for review of BGSS and to request a potential
rate change to be effective the following October 1. The agreement also
allows natural gas utilities to provisionally increase residential and small
commercial customer BGSS rates up to 5 percent on December 1 and February 1
on a self-implementing basis, after proper notice and BPU action on the June filing.
Such increases are subject to subsequent BPU review and final   approval.  

  On June 1, 2005, NJNG filed for a 4.2 percent
price increase to an average residential customer, to be effective on October 1,
2005.   On July 21, 2005, NJNG amended
its filing, requesting an effective date of September 1, 2005 .  The BPU approved this increase on a provisional basis on August 19,
2005, and it became effective   on September 1,
2005 .  This requested   increase
was necessary due to higher wholesale commodity costs and was subject to refund
with interest.  

79     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

On November 10, 2005,
NJNG filed for a 23.2 percent price increase to an average residential
customer, which was provisionally approved and became effective on
December 14, 2005. This increase was necessary due to higher wholesale
commodity costs and was subject to refund with interest.  

  In January and March 2006,
NJNG filed supporting documentation with the BPU for a bill credit to its
customers for the period February 1, 2006 through April 30, 2006. The
bill credits, which temporarily reduced the BGSS tariff component, provided a
benefit of approximately $28.6 million to NJNG s residential and small commercial
customers during that period.  

  On June 1, 2006, NJNG
filed for a reduction to the BGSS rate that would decrease an average
residential customer s bill by approximately 6.6 percent. The BPU approved this
decrease on a provisional basis on September 27, 2006. NJNG refunded
approximately $22.5 million to residential and small commercial customers in September 2006.  

  All of the above credits and
refunds were possible due primarily to a decline in wholesale natural gas prices
that occurred subsequent to NJNG s November 10, 2005 BGSS filing. These refunds
and credits apply only to NJNG s residential and small commerical sales customers,
as transportation customers are not subject to the BGSS clause  

  On October 25, 2006, NJNG
filed supporting documentation with the BPU for a self-implementing BGSS price
reduction to be effective November 1, 2006, which will lower residential
and small commercial customers  bills by approximately an additional 4 percent.
This decrease was due to the continued reduction in the wholesale cost of
natural gas.  

   Incentive Programs   

  NJNG is eligible to receive
incentives for reducing BGSS costs through a series of utility gross
margin-sharing programs that include off-system sales, capacity release,
storage incentive and financial risk management programs. On April 12,
2006, the BPU approved an agreement whereby the existing utility gross
margin-sharing programs between customers and shareowners were extended through
October 31, 2007.  

   Societal Benefits Clause (SBC)   

  The SBC is comprised of three
primary components, a Universal Service Fund rider (USF), a Manufactured Gas
Plant Remediation Adjustment Clause (RAC), and the New Jersey Clean Energy
Program (NJCEP). The USF is a permanent statewide program that was approved by
the BPU in March 2003 for all natural gas and electric utilities for the
benefit of limited-income customers; the RAC is a rider approved by the BPU in June 1992
that provides for recovery of expenditures incurred to remediate former gas
manufacturing facilities; and the NJCEP is a program approved by the BPU in March 2001
designed to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy. Recovery of SBC
program costs is subject to BPU approval of annual filings that include an
updated report of expenditures incurred each year.  

    Universal
Service Fund    

  Through the USF, eligible
customers receive a credit toward their utility bill. The credits applied to
eligible customers are recovered through the USF rider in the SBC.   NJNG recovers carrying costs on   

80     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

deferred USF
balances. On July 1, 2006, the natural gas utilities filed to increase the
statewide USF recovery rate as a result of higher USF benefits effective
October 1, 2006 .  In
October 2006,   the BPU approved
the requested recovery rate to be effective November 1, 2006, which
results in an approximate .9 percent increase to the total bill of a residential
sales customer.  

    Clean Energy Program    

  On December 23, 2004, the
BPU issued a decision establishing the statewide NJCEP funding amount for the
period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008. NJNG s obligation
to the state of New Jersey, which is recoverable from customers through the SBC,
gradually increases from $4.2 million in fiscal 2005 to $9.5 million in
fiscal 2008. As a result, NJNG has a remaining discounted liability of $19.6
million and a corresponding Regulatory asset included in SBC at September 30,
2006. Additionally, this decision reaffirmed the right and basis for utilities
to collect lost revenue related to the implementation of Clean Energy programs
for measures installed prior to December 31, 2003. As of September 30,
2005, NJNG recorded $1 million of revenue related to this program and has
sought recovery of such revenue in its September 30, 2005 SBC filing. NJNG
also filed the results of the fiscal 2005 WNC on September 30, 2005, which
seeks to apply a $2.1 million refund to other clauses that are currently
underrecovered. The October 25, 2006 filing modifies this request and
primarily seeks to apply the WNC refund to the 2005-2006 winter period
WNC margin deficiency.  

    Remediation Adjustment Clause    

  On April 12, 2006, the
BPU approved NJNG s 2004 annual filing and signed a stipulation agreement that
maintained the existing recovery rate of approximately $19.2 million annually, which
recognizes remediation expenditures through June 30, 2004.  

   October 2006 Filings   

  On October 25, 2006, NJNG
made its annual SBC filing, which updates RAC expenditures through
June 30, 2006, and provides current clean energy funding projections. In
addition, NJNG proposed to reduce the RAC recovery from $19.2 million to $15.9
million, annually, and increase the recovery for NJCEP from $7.1 million to
$13.6 million, for the calendar year 2007, to address current funding
obligations and a prior year underrecovery. At the same time, NJNG filed
supporting documentation for the WNC surcharge of approximately $10.3 million
for the period from October 1, 2005 through May 31, 2006. The
combined effect of these two filings is an increase of approximately 1.7
percent for the average residential customer, with a requested effective date
of January 1, 2007.  

   Other Proceedings   

  NJNG is also involved in
various proceedings associated with several other adjustment clauses and an
audit of its BGSS, the outcome of which, in management s opinion, will not have
a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.  

81  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Regulatory Assets   Liabilities   

  At September 30,
2006 and 2005, respectively, the Company had the following regulatory assets,
all related to NJNG, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets:  

(1)                 Recoverable,
subject to BPU annual approval, without interest, except for $6.4 million that
was recoverable with interest through November 30, 2005. 

   (2)                 Recoverable,
subject to BPU approval, with interest over rolling seven-year periods.
Also net of estimated future insurance proceeds of $10 million at September 30,  2006. 

   (3)                 Estimated
future expenditures. Recovery will be requested when actual expenditures are
incurred. (See Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.) 

   (4)                 Recoverable/refundable,
subject to BPU approval, without interest. 

   (5)                 Recoverable,
subject to BPU approval, through BGSS, without interest. 

   (6)                 Recoverable
with interest, subject to BPU approval. 

  If there are any changes in
regulatory positions that indicate the recovery of regulatory assets is not
probable, the related cost would be charged to income in the period of such
determination.  

  At September 30,
2006 and 2005, the Company had the following regulatory liabilities, all
related to NJNG, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets:  

(1)                 NJNG
accrues and collects for cost of removal in rates. This liability represents
collections in excess of actual expenditures. Approximately $18.2 million of
regulatory assets relating to asset retirement obligation have been netted against
the cost of removal obligation as of September 30, 2006. See Note 8. Asset
Retirement Obligations 

   (2)                 The
MDF, created with funds available as a result of the implementation of the
Energy Tax Reform Act of 1997, currently provides financial incentives to
encourage customers to switch to third party suppliers and has supported other
unbundling related initiatives. Balance earns interest at prevailing SBC rate.
The MDF funding obligations  terminated
as of October 31, 2006. $4.9 million of this fund was credited  to the New Jersey Clean Energy Program, as a
result of a filing with the BPU on October 25, 2006. The remaining balance
is being held until final resolution of NJNG s fiscal 2005 SBC filing. 

82     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

5. FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT     

  The Company and its
subsidiaries are subject to market risk due to fluctuations in the price of
natural gas. To hedge against such fluctuations, the Company and its
subsidiaries enter into futures contracts, option agreements and swap
agreements to hedge purchases and sales of natural gas.  

  Generally, all of the
commodity contracts of NJRES meet the  normal purchase normal sale  scope
exception of SFAS No. 133, and are accounted for under accrual accounting,
or are designated as a hedge for accounting purposes. If these commodity
contracts do not meet the normal purchase normal sale scope exception, or if
they do not qualify as a hedge, they are recorded at fair value as a component
of operating revenues.  

  The amounts included in Other
comprehensive income related to natural gas instruments, which have been
designated as cash flow hedges, will reduce or increase gas costs as the
underlying physical transaction occurs and is settled. Based on the amount
recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2006,
$96.3 million is expected to be recorded as a decrease to gas costs in fiscal
2007.  

  In March 1992, NJR Energy
entered into a long-term fixed-price contract to sell natural gas (Gas Sale
Contract) to an energy marketing company, which expires in 2010. NJR Energy
entered into a series of swap agreements and purchase contracts, which hedged
its risk for sales volumes under the Gas Sale Contract that were in excess of
the estimated production from natural gas reserves owned at the time. These
cash flow hedges cover various periods of time ranging from November 2006
to October 2010.  

  The respective obligations of
NJR Energy and the counterparties under the swap agreements are guaranteed,
subject to a maximum amount, by the Company and the respective counterparties 
parent corporations. In the event of nonperformance by the counterparties and
their parent corporations, NJR Energy s financial results would be impacted by
the difference, if any, between the fixed price it is receiving under the Gas
Sale Contracts and the floating price that it is paying under the purchase
contract. However, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the
counterparties, which are major national energy companies.  

  The
following table summarizes the ineffective portions of the Company s cash flow
hedges that are included as a benefit (expense) as part of the Gas purchases in
the Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal years ended September 30,
2006, 2005 and 2004:  

83     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

The ineffective portions of the NJRES cash flow hedges relate to
certain natural gas basis swap contracts, which concluded in October 2006,
that were deemed ineffective in fiscal 2001 upon the adoption of SFAS 133.  

  Generally, exchange-traded
futures contracts require a deposit of margin cash, the amount of which is
subject to change based on market movements and in accordance with exchange
rules. The Company maintains two broker margin accounts for NJNG and NJRES. The
balances as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:  

6. STOCK BASED
COMPENSATION     

  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004)   Share-Based Payment   (SFAS
123R). This statement requires companies to record compensation expense for all
share-based awards granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS 123R. In
addition, SFAS 123R requires the recording of compensation expense for the
unvested portion of previously granted awards that remain outstanding at the
date of adoption. In October 2002, the Company adopted the prospective
method of SFAS No. 123,   Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation   (SFAS 123), and as such has recognized
compensation expense for grants issued subsequent to October 1, 2002 at the
fair value of the options at date of grant. The Company determines the fair
value of the options using the Black-Scholes method. The Company adopted SFAS
123R effective October 1, 2005, and the adoption did not have a material
impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

  The
following table summarizes all stock-based compensation expense recognized
during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004
respectively:  

84     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

The following table presents
the pro forma impacts on both net income and earnings per share for the fiscal
years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 for options granted prior to October 1,
2002, which were accounted for under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees .   Beginning October 1, 2005, the cost of
all options are expensed under SFAS 123R.  

Stock Options    

  The
following table summarizes the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model and the resulting weighted average fair value of the stock
options issued during the last three fiscal years:  

85  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

The following table summarizes
the stock option activity for the past three fiscal years:  

For the stock options listed above, there are $758,000
in costs related to unvested options that are expected to be recognized over the
next 4 years.  

  The following table summarizes
stock options outstanding and exercisable as of September 30, 2006:  

86     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Performance Units    

  The Company has issued
performance units to various officers which are market conditions awards. The
following table summarizes the Performance Unit activity under the Employee and
Outside Director Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan for the past three
fiscal years:    

(1)                 The number of common
shares issued related to performance units may range form zero to 150 percent
of the number of units shown in the table above based on the Company s
achievement of performance goals associated with NJR total shareowner return
relative to a selected peer group of companies. 

  The Company measures compensation expense related to
performance units based on the fair value of these awards at their date of
grant. Compensation expense for performance units is recognized for awards that
ultimately vest, and is not adjusted based on actual achievement of the
performance goals. The Company estimated the fair value of the performance
units on the date of grant using a Lattice model.  

  There are $479,000 in costs
related to unvested performance units that are expected to be recognized over
the next two years.  

    Restricted Stock    

  In fiscal  2006,
the Company granted 2,755 shares of restricted stock pursuant to the Employee
and Outside Director Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. The stock is
restricted for a period of four years from grant date. The Company is
recognizing expense based on the market value of the stock as of the grant date
over the vesting period.  

  There are $103,000 in costs related to unvested
restricted stock shares that are expected to be recognized over the next four
years.  

87     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

7.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)   

  The
following table presents the calculation of the Company s basic and diluted
EPS:  

(1)                 Incremental
shares consist of stock options, stock awards and performance units 

   8. ASSET
RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS (ARO)   

  In March 2005, the FASB issued Financial
Interpretation Number 47,   Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   (FIN 47), to clarify the
term  conditional asset retirement obligation  (CARO) as used in SFAS No. 143,
  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations . 
A CARO refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in
which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event
that may or may not be within the control of the company. FIN 47 removes the
conditionality surrounding an ARO, such that the obligation to perform the
asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about
the timing and/or method of settlement. NJR adopted FIN 47 effective as of September 30,
2006.  

  FIN 47 requires NJR to recognize a reasonably
estimated liability for the fair value of a CARO. The fair value of a liability
for a CARO should be recognized when incurred, which is generally upon
acquisition, construction, development and/or through the normal operation of
the asset. An asset retirement cost will be capitalized concurrently by
increasing the carrying amount of the related asset by the same amount as the
liability. In periods subsequent to the initial measurement, NJR is required to
recognize changes in the liability resulting from the passage of time
(accretion) or due to revisions to either timing or the amount of the
originally estimated cash flows to settle the CARO.  

  As of  September 30,
2006, NJR identified a CARO related to the costs associated with cutting and
capping its main and service gas distribution pipelines of NJNG, which is
required by New Jersey law when taking such gas distribution pipeline out of
service.  

  NJNG recorded liabilities of approximately $5.1
million related to the present value of CARO and $18.2 million related to
accumulated accretion. NJR believes that CARO-related amounts represent timing
differences in the recognition of legal retirement costs that are currently
being recovered in NJNG s rates and, therefore, is deferring such differences
as a regulatory asset under SFAS 71. The $18.2 million related to accumulated
accretion, which represents a regulatory asset, has been netted against NJNG s
cost of removal regulatory liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

88     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

The pro forma amounts of the
liabilities for asset retirement obligations for the periods ended September 30,
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, are presented in the following table. These
amounts were calculated using current information, assumptions and interest
rates:  

(1)                Accretion  is not reflected on NJR s  Consolidated Statements of Operations as it
is deferred and recovered in rate base. 

  Accretion
for the next five years, is estimated to be as follows:  

Accretion amounts will not be
reflected as expense on NJR s Consolidated Statements of Operations, but rather
deferred as a regulatory asset and netted against NJNG s regulatory
liabilities, for presentation purposes, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

    9.  INCOME TAXES   

  The Company s federal tax returns through fiscal 2002
either have been reviewed by survey, examined by the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS), or the related statute of limitations has expired and all matters have
been settled. As part of standard procedure in handling a fiscal 2003 federal
income tax refund request, an IRS audit review of the fiscal 2003 and 2004 tax
returns is under way.  

89     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

A reconciliation of the U.S.
federal statutory rate of 35 percent to our effective rate from operations for
the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:  

The Income tax provision
(benefit) from operations consists of the following:  

For fiscal 2006 the statutory state income tax rate
increased to 9.36 percent from the prior year state income tax rate of 9
percent. This increase is due to a 4 percent surtax which has been imposed by
the state of New Jersey during fiscal 2006. The surtax is expected to expire June 30, 2009.  

90     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

The temporary differences,
which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, consist of the following:  

91  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

10. BUSINESS SEGMENT
DATA     

   Information related to the Company s
various business segments, excluding capital expenditures,   which are presented in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, is detailed below.   

  The
Natural Gas Distribution segment consists of regulated energy and off-system,
capacity and storage management operations. The Energy Services segment
consists of unregulated wholesale energy operations. The Retail and Other
segment consists of appliance and installation services, commercial real estate
development, investments and other corporate activities.  

The
Company s assets for the various business segments are detailed below:  

(1)    Consists of transactions
between subsidiaries that are eliminated in consolidation.   

   11. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT
PLANS     

   Pension and Other
Postemployment Benefit Plans (OPEB)   

  The Company has two trusteed, noncontributory defined
benefit retirement plans covering regular represented and nonrepresented
employees with more than one year of service. All represented   

92     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

employees of NJRHS hired on or
after October 1, 2000, are covered by an enhanced defined contribution
plan instead of the defined benefit plan.  

  Defined benefit plan benefits are based on years of
service and average compensation during the highest 60 consecutive months of
employment.  

  The Company provides postemployment medical and life
insurance benefits to employees who meet the eligibility requirements.  

  The Company s funding policy for its pension plans is
to contribute at least the minimum amount required by the Employment Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, the Company
had no minimum funding requirements; however, the Company made discretionary
contributions of $10 million and $10.9 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005,
respectively, to the pension plans. The Company elected to make these
discretionary tax-deductible contributions to improve the funded status of the
pension plans. The Company currently has no plans to fund the pension plans over
the next five years.  

  The Company made tax-deductible contributions of $3.7
million in fiscal 2006 and $638,000 in fiscal 2005 to the OPEB plans. It is
anticipated that the Company s funding level to the OPEB plans will be
approximately $600,000 annually over the next five years.  

93     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

The components of the net
periodic cost for pension benefits and OPEB costs (principally health care and
life insurance) for employees and covered dependents were as follows:  

p  

  In selecting an assumed
discount rate, NJR uses a modeling process that involves selecting a portfolio of
high-quality corporate debt issuances (AA- or better) whose cash flows (via
coupons or maturities) match the timing and amount of NJR s expected future
benefit payments. NJR considers the results of this modeling process, as well
as overall rates of return on high-quality corporate bonds and changes in such
rates over time, in determination of its assumed discount rate.  

  NJR s general approach for
determining the overall expected long-term rate of return on assets considers
historical and expected future asset returns, the current and future targeted
asset mix of the plan assets, historical and future expected real rates of
return for equities and fixed income securities, and historical and expected
inflation statistics. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets to
be used to develop net periodic benefit costs for fiscal 2007 is 9 percent for
pension costs and 8.5 percent for OPEB costs.  

94     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

A
reconciliation of the funded status of the plans to the amounts recognized on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets is presented below, using a measurement date of
September 30:  

The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for the
pension plans at September 30, 2006 and 2005, was $90.9 million and $86.1
million, respectively.  

95  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Pursuant to SFAS No. 87,   Employers
Accounting for Pension   (SFAS 87), the Company was required to
record a $207,000 reduction to its minimum pension liability in fiscal 2005,
which is included in Postemployment employee benefit liability on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

  The expected long-term rate of return is based on the
asset categories in which the Company invests and the current expectations and
historical performance for these categories.  

  The mix
and targeted allocation of the pension and OPEB plans  assets are as follows:  

The
following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate, are expected to be paid during the following years:  

In fiscal
2004, the Company adopted FASB Staff Position   Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003  (the Act)  (FSP 106-2).
The adoption of FSP 106-2 resulted in a $300,000 reduction in expense in
fiscal 2004 and a $3 million reduction in the accumulated postemployment
benefit obligation. The estimated subsidy payments from the Act are:  

96     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Pension Equalization
Plan   

  The Company maintains an unfunded nonqualified pension
equalization plan (PEP) that was established to provide employees with the full
level of benefits as stated in the qualified plan without reductions due to
various limitations imposed by the provisions of federal income tax laws and
regulations. There were no plan assets in the nonqualified plan due to the
nature of the plan. The Company recognized a $144,000 and $1.9 million net
periodic PEP cost in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. The PEP weighted
average assumptions are identical to the qualified pension plan assumptions.  

  The PBO and ABO for the
Company s unfunded PEP were $2.0 million and $1.9 million respectively, as of September 30,
2006, and $2.1 million and $1.9 million, respectively, as of September 30,
2005.  

   Voluntary Early
Retirement Program   

  In September 2004, the
Company offered a voluntary early retirement program to officers of NJR and its
subsidiaries. The early retirement program resulted in $2.5 million being
charged to Operations and maintenance expense in fiscal 2005.  

   Defined Contribution
Plan   

  The Company offers an Employees  Retirement Savings
Plan (Savings Plan) to eligible employees. The Company matches 50 percent of
participants  contributions up to 6 percent of base compensation.  

  For represented NJRHS employees who are not eligible
for participation in the defined benefit plan, the Company contributes between
2 and 3 percent of base compensation, depending on years of service, into the
Savings Plan on their behalf.  

  The amount expensed and contributed for the matching
provision   of the Savings Plan was
$1.1 million each in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

97     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

12. SELECTED QUARTERLY
DATA (UNAUDITED)     

  A summary
of financial data for each quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005 follows. Due to the
seasonal nature of the Company s businesses, quarterly amounts vary
significantly during the fiscal year. In the opinion of management, the
information furnished reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair
presentation of the results of the interim periods.  

The sum of quarterly earnings
per share may not equal annual earnings per share due to rounding.  

   13. COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES     

   Cash Commitments   

  NJNG has entered into long-term contracts, expiring at
various dates through 2022, for the supply, storage and delivery of natural
gas. These contracts include current annual fixed charges of approximately
$102.5 million at current contract rates and volumes, which are recovered
through the BGSS.  

  As of September 30, 2006, there were NJR guarantees covering approximately $232
million of natural gas purchases and demand fee commitments of NJRES and
NJNG not yet reflected in Accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

  NJNG s capital expenditures are estimated at $66
million and $63   million in fiscal 2007 and 2008,
respectively, and consist primarily of its construction program to support
customer growth, maintenance of its distribution system and replacement needed
under proposed pipeline safety rulemaking.  

  The Company s future minimum
lease payments under various operating leases are less than $3.7 million
annually for the next five years and $680,000 in the aggregate for all years
thereafter.  

98     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Manufactured Gas Plant
Remediation   

  NJNG has identified 11 former MGP sites, dating back
to the late 1800s and early 1900s, which contain contaminated residues from the
former gas manufacturing operations. Ten of the 11 sites in question were
acquired by NJNG in 1952. Gas manufacturing operations ceased at these sites at
least by the mid-1950s and, in some cases, had been discontinued many
years earlier. All of the former gas manufacturing facilities were subsequently
dismantled by NJNG or the previous owners. Since October 1989, NJNG has
been operating under Administrative Consent Orders or Memoranda of Agreement
with the NJDEP covering all 11 sites. These orders and agreements establish the
procedures to be followed in developing a final remedial cleanup plan for each
site. NJNG is currently involved in administrative proceedings with the NJDEP
with respect to the MGP sites in question, as well as participating in various
studies and investigations by outside consultants to determine the nature and
extent of any such contaminated residues and to develop appropriate programs of
remedial action, where warranted. Until September 2000, most of the cost
of such studies and investigations had been shared under an agreement with the
former owner and operator of 10 of the MGP sites, Jersey Central Power  
Light Company (JCP L), a subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corporation
(FirstEnergy).  

  In September 2000, a revised agreement was
executed pursuant to which NJNG is responsible for two of the sites, while
JCP L is responsible for the remaining eight sites. Also in September 2000,
NJNG purchased a 20-year cost-containment insurance policy and an
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Insurance Policy (ERCLIP) for
the two sites (see  Kemper Insurance Company
Litigation  below). On September 14, 2004, the BPU approved a
simultaneous transfer of properties whereby NJNG would take ownership of two
sites. NJNG continues to participate in the investigation and remedial action
and bears the cost related to the one MGP site that was not subject to the
original cost-sharing agreement.  

  In June 1992, the BPU approved a remediation
rider through which NJNG may, subject to BPU approval, recover its remediation
expenditures, including carrying costs, over rolling 7-year periods. The
BPU reviews the remediation recovery each year when NJNG files its annual
report of expenditures. On April 12, 2006, the BPU approved a stipulation
related to NJNG s 2004 filing, that maintained the existing recovery rate of
approximately $19.2 million annually that recognizes remediation expenditures
through June 2004. Currently, two SBC annual filings are pending BPU approval.
On September 30, 2005, NJNG filed updated information regarding
expenditures to SBC programs and activities, including MGP expenditures through
June 30, 2005. While the SBC filing maintained the same overall rate, the
filing proposed to reduce the portion related to the remediation rider recovery
to $11.6 million of annual expenditures to reflect actual spending levels. In
the subsequent annual filing in October 2006, NJNG filed to supersede its
prior request, seeking a decrease to the existing remediation rider recovery from
$19.2 million, annually,  to $15.9
million, annually. As of September 30,
2006, $83.7 million of previously incurred remediation costs,   net of recoveries from customers as
well as received and anticipated insurance proceeds, are included in Regulatory
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (See  Note 4. 
 Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.)   

  In March 1995, NJNG instituted an action for
declaratory relief against 24 separate insurance companies in the Superior
Court of New Jersey. These insurance carriers provided comprehensive general
liability coverage to NJNG from 1951 through 1985. In July 1996, the
complaint was amended  

99     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

to name Kaiser-Nelson Steel
and Salvage Company (Kaiser-Nelson) and its successors for environmental
damages caused by Kaiser-Nelson s decommissioning of structures at several MGP
sites. In September 2001, NJNG reached a favorable settlement with the
insurance carrier that provided the majority of NJNG s coverage. This
settlement involved a significant cash payment to NJNG, which was credited to
the remediation rider, and was received in four installments ending October 2004.
In January 2006, NJNG reached a settlement of all claims with
Kaiser-Nelson, which included a cash payment that was received by NJNG and
credited to the remediation rider. Consequently, NJNG has now dismissed or
reached a settlement with all of its insurance carriers who provided
comprehensive general liability coverage to NJNG in connection with the MGP
sites.  

  NJNG is presently investigating the potential
settlement of alleged Natural Resource Damage (NRD) claims that might be
brought by the NJDEP concerning the three   MGP sites.
NJDEP has not made any specific demands for compensation for alleged injury to
groundwater or other natural resources. NJNG s evaluation of these potential
claims is in the early stages, and it is not yet possible to quantify the
amount of compensation that NJDEP might seek to recover. NJNG anticipates any
costs associated with this matter would be recoverable through the remediation
rider.  

  NJNG is involved with
environmental investigations and remedial actions at certain MGP sites. In September 2006,
with the assistance of an outside consulting firm, NJNG updated an
environmental review of the MGP sites, including a review of potential liability
for investigation and remedial action. Based on this review, NJNG estimated at
the time of the review that, exclusive of any insurance recoveries, total
future expenditures to remediate and monitor the three MGP sites for which it
is responsible, will range from $105.4 million to $174.6 million. NJNG s
estimate of these liabilities is based upon known facts, existing technology
and enacted laws and regulations in place when the review was completed.
However, actual costs are expected to differ from these estimates. Where
available information is sufficient to estimate the amount of the liability, it
is NJNG s policy to accrue the full amount of such estimate. Where the
information is sufficient only to establish a range of probable liability, and
no point within the range is more likely than any other, it is NJNG s policy to
accrue the lower end of the range. Accordingly,
NJNG has recorded an MGP remediation liability and a corresponding Regulatory
asset of $105.4 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The actual
costs to be incurred by NJNG are dependent upon several factors, including
final determination of remedial action, changing technologies and governmental
regulations, the ultimate ability of other responsible parties to pay and any
insurance recoveries. NJNG will continue to seek recovery of such costs through
its remediation rider. If any future regulatory position indicates that the
recovery of such costs is not probable, the related cost would be charged to
income in the period of such determination.  

   Long Branch Litigation   

  Since July 2003, a series of complaints were
filed in the New Jersey Superior Court against NJNG, NJR, JCP L and
FirstEnergy. The complaints were originally filed in Monmouth County and, as of
February 2004, were designated as a Mass Tort Litigation (the  Mass Tort
Litigation ) for centralized case management purposes and transferred to the
Bergen County Law Division. There were originally 528 complaints filed. All 528
complaints have been dismissed or settled.  

100     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Among other things, the complaints alleged personal
injuries, wrongful death, survivorship actions, property damage and claims for
medical monitoring stemming from the operation and remediation of the former
MGP site in Long Branch, New Jersey. The relief sought included compensatory
damages, the establishment of a medical monitoring fund, disgorgement of
alleged profits, cost of cleanup and remediation, natural resource damages and
punitive damages.  

  In December 2005, a confidential settlement
between NJNG and the plaintiffs was finalized and approved by the New Jersey
Superior Court in Bergen County.  

  JCP L and FirstEnergy made a demand upon NJNG and
NJR for indemnification pursuant to the September 2000 agreement between
these entities and NJNG, whereby NJNG assumed responsibility for the Long
Branch site. NJNG has agreed to honor the indemnification terms of the
agreement.  

  NJNG s insurance carriers were initially   notified of the claims, and Kemper Insurance Company
(Kemper), under the ERCLIP, initially agreed to provide a defense and certain
coverage, subject to a reservation of rights regarding various allegations in
the complaints, typically not covered by insurance. However, as Kemper s
defense and insurance obligations were not met, NJNG initiated litigation
against Kemper (see  Kemper Insurance Company
Litigation  below).  

  Management believes that litigation costs and the
settlement amount are recoverable through insurance (subject to the outcome of
the Kemper Insurance Company Litigation). Additionally, management believes
that any liabilities not recoverable through insurance, except for punitive and
personal injury damages, would be recoverable, with BPU approval, through the
remediation rider. However, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate
resolution of the recovery of these amounts or the impact on the Company s
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

  Twelve  pro se  matters
have been filed against the Company and NJNG since February 26, 2005.
These complaints were filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey Law Division,
Bergen County and allege the same claims made in the Mass Tort Litigation. Five
of these actions have since been dismissed by the court. NJNG and the Company
believe that the allegations in the complaints have no merit and are vigorously
defending against them.  

  The amount of total liability,
resulting from the  pro se  matters
described in the preceding paragraph if any, and any related insurance recovery
cannot be determined at this time; however, based on information and relevant
circumstances known at this time, management does not believe these suits will
have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.  

   Kemper Insurance
Company Litigation   

  In October 2004, NJNG instituted suit for
declaratory relief against Kemper in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law
Division, Ocean County. The case is under active case management. Kemper
provided insurance under an ERCLIP together with a cost containment coverage
policy effective July 21, 2000. Prior to the institution of this suit,
NJNG requested that Kemper defend and indemnify claims involving the Mass Tort
Long Branch litigation (see  Long Branch Litigation ,
above) and reimburse NJNG  for
remediation costs for the Long Branch site that exceed the self-insured retention.  

101     

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Continued)   

Kemper reserved its rights
regarding various allegations in the Mass Tort Litigation and agreed to
participate in the defense of that matter. Although Kemper has not denied
coverage, it has not yet reimbursed NJNG for any costs incurred to date. In
fiscal 2003, Kemper ceased its underwriting operations and voluntarily
commenced a runoff of its business. The Illinois Department of Insurance has
approved Kemper s runoff plan. Management believes that, with the exception of
any liability for punitive and personal injury damages, any costs associated
with Kemper s failure to meet its future obligations will be recoverable, with
BPU approval, through the remediation rider.  

  There can be no assurance as
to the ultimate resolution of this matter or the impact on the Company s
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

   Various   

  The Company is a party to
various other claims, legal actions, complaints and investigations arising in
the ordinary course of business. In the Company s opinion, the ultimate
disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on its
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

   ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE     

None  

   ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     

Disclosure Controls and
Procedures     

  As of the end of the period
reported on in this report, NJR has undertaken an evaluation under the
supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to
Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Based upon that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that NJR s disclosure controls and procedures were effective with regard to the
recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, within the time periods
specified in the SEC s rules and forms, of information required to be
disclosed by NJR in the reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act.  

   Management s Annual
Report on Internal Control over Financial Report     

  The report of management
required under this ITEM 9A is contained in ITEM 8 of this Form 10-K
under the caption  Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting.   

102  

New Jersey Resources   Part II  

   ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES (Continued)   

Attestation Report of
Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  The attestation report
required under this ITEM 9A is contained in ITEM 8 of this 10-K under the
caption  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

   Changes in Internal
Control over Financial Reporting     

  There have been no significant
changes in the Company s internal controls over financial reporting or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls in the quarter ended September 30,
2006.  

   ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION     

None  

103  

New Jersey Resources     Part III  

   ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT     

Information concerning the
Board of Directors of the Company, the members of the Company s Audit
Committee, the Company s Audit Committee Financial Expert, the Company s Code
of Ethics and compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to the Company s Proxy
Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareowners (the  Proxy Statement ),
which will be filed with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to
Regulation 14A on or about December 22, 2006.  

   Executive Officers   

  The information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the
Company   of this report.  

   ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     

Information required by this
Item is incorporated by reference from the Registrant s Proxy Statement.  

   ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT     

Information required by this
Item is incorporated by reference from the Registrant s Proxy Statement.  

   ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS     

Information required by this
Item is incorporated by reference from the Registrant s Proxy Statement.  

   ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES     

Information required by this
Item is incorporated by reference from the Registrant s Proxy Statement.  

   ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
REPORTS ON   FORM 8-K   

(a) 1.    Financial Statements. 

  All Financial Statements of the Registrant are filed
as part of this report and included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K.  

  (a) 2.    Financial Statement
Schedules See Index to Financial Statement Schedules In Item 8. 

  (a) 3.    Exhibits See Exhibit Index
on page 108. 

104  

New Jersey Resources   

   INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES     

Page   

Schedule II Valuation
  and qualifying accounts and reserves for each of the three years in the
  period ended September 30, 2006   

106  

Schedules other
than those listed above are omitted because they are not required or are not
applicable, or the required information is shown in the financial statements or
notes thereto.    

105  

New Jersey Resources   

   Schedule
II     

   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   
YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004   

Notes:                          (1) Uncollectible
accounts written off, less recoveries and changes to adjust reserve to
appropriate level. 

106  

New Jersey Resources   

     SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

NEW JERSEY RESOURCES
  CORPORATION  

(Registrant)  

Date: November 22, 2006  

By:/s/ GLENN C. LOCKWOOD  

Glenn C. Lockwood  

Senior Vice President
  and  

Chief Financial
  Officer  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the
capacities and on the dates indicated:  

107  

New Jersey Resources   

   EXHIBIT INDEX     

108     

New Jersey Resources   

109     

New Jersey Resources   

110     

New Jersey Resources   

*                         Filed herewith  

                              This certificate accompanies this Report
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be
deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 or any other
provision of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

111  

This Page Intentionally
Left Blank.     

This
Page Intentionally Left Blank.   

This
Page Intentionally Left Blank.   

<EX-4.5>
 2
 a06-23841_1ex4d5.htm
 INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

Exhibit 4.5   

Execution
version    

    CREDIT AGREEMENT    

  This  CREDIT AGREEMENT 
(this  Agreement ) is dated as of October 12, 2006 and is by and  among NEW
JERSEY RESOURCES CORPORATION ( NJRC ), a New Jersey corporation, NJR ENERGY SERVICES COMPANY ( NJRESC ), a New Jersey
corporation (a  Borrower  and NJRC and NJRESC, together, the  Borrowers ) and BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ TRUST
COMPANY, a New York trust company (the  Bank ). 

  WHEREAS,
the Borrowers have requested the Bank to provide a revolving credit facility to
the Borrowers in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $30,000,000;  

  WHEREAS,
the Borrowers are jointly and severally liable as obligors under this
Agreement; and  

  WHEREAS, t he Borrowers desire the Bank to extend credit to the
Borrowers, and the Bank agrees to extend credit to the Borrowers, all in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein. 

   NOW, THEREFORE,   for good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby confirmed and acknowledged, the
Borrowers and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

  Section 1.                Definitions
and Interpretation .  

  As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:  

  (a)             Affiliate  
shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that, directly or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by,
or is under common control with, such first Person.  

  (b)             Agreement Date  
shall mean the date first set above, such date being the date as of which this
Agreement was executed and delivered by the parties hereto.  

  (c)             Applicable Law  
shall mean, anything in Section 13 to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) all
applicable common law and principles of equity and (ii) all applicable
provisions of all (A) constitutions, statutes, rules, regulations and orders of
governmental bodies, (B) Governmental Approvals and (C) orders, decisions,
judgments and decrees of all courts and arbitrators.  

  (d)            Authorized Officer 
shall mean those individuals, designated by written notice to the bank from the
Borrowers, authorized to execute notices, reports and other  

documents on behalf of the Borrowers required hereunder.  The Borrowers may amend such list of
individuals from time to time by giving written notice of such amendment to the
Bank.  

  (e)             Bank s Office  
shall mean Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, 1251 Avenue of the
Americas, 12th Floor, New York, New York 10020-1104.  

  ( f)              Business Day  
shall mean any day except a day (i) which is a Saturday or a Sunday, or (ii)
on which commercial banks are not required or authorized to remain open for the
regular transaction of international and domestic business in the City of New
York. 

  (g)              Consolidated Income
from Operations      for any
period of determin ation  shall mean
(i) the sum of net income (provided that there shall be excluded from net   in come:  (a) any extraordinary items of
gain or loss (including, without limitation, those items created by   mandated changes in accounting treatment), and
(b) any gain or loss of any Person accounted for on the equity method except to
the extent of cash distributions received by   NJRC or   any   Subsidiary of NJRC during the period of
determination with respect to any gain of any   Person accounted for on the equity method), depreciation, amortization,
other non-cash charges  to net income, interest expense and income tax
expense minus (ii) non-cash credits to net  income,
in each case of NJRC   and its
Subsidiaries for such period determined and   consolidated in accordance with GAAP.  

  (h)              Consolidated Interest Ex pense       for any period of determination shall mean  interest expense for
such period of NJRC  and its Subsidiaries
determined on a  consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. 

  (i)               Consolidated Shareholders  Equity    shall mean  as  of any date of   determination
the sum of the amounts under the headings  Common Shareholders  Equity  and  Preferred
Shareholders  Equity  on the balance sheet, prepared in accordance with GAAP,
for NJRC    and its Subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis as of such date of determination.  

  (j)               Consolidated Total Capitalization    shall mean as of any date of  determination
the sum of (i) Consolidated Total Indebtedness, plus (ii) Consolidated  Shareholders  Equity.  

  (k)              Consolidated Total Indebtedness   shall
mean as  of any date of   determination total Indebtedness, without duplication,
of NJRC    and its Subsidiaries.  

  ( l)              Credit Agreement
Related Claim   shall mean any claim (whether sounding in tort, contract or
otherwise) in any way related to, arising out of, or connected with, this
Agreement, or the relationships established hereunder or thereunder, whether
such claim arises or is asserted before or after the Agreement Date. 

( m)            Credit Facility  
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2 hereof. 

  ( n)             Credit Facility
Termination Date   shall mean October 12, 2009. 

  ( o)             Default   shall
mean any condition or event that constitutes an Event of Default or that with
the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived,
become an Event of Default. 

  (p o)           Dollars   and the
sign   $   shall each refer to the lawful currency of the United States of
America. 

  (q )             Environmental
Laws   shall mean as of any date the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Occupational Safety and Health Act,
as such laws have been amended or supplemented, and any Federal, state, or
local statute, ordinance, rule or regulation in effect. 

  ( r)              ERISA   shall
mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time
to time. 

  ( s)             Event of Default  
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 11 of this Agreement. 

  (t)              GAAP   shall mean generally
accepted accounting principles applicable in the United States set forth from
time to time in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles
Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements
and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies
with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the U.S.
accounting profession), which are applicable to the circumstances as of the
date of determination.  

  ( u)             Governmental
Approval   shall mean any authorization, consent, approval, license or
exemption of, registration or filing with, or report or notice to, a
governmental unit. 

  (v)              Guaranty  of
any Person       shall mean any
obligation of such Person   guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing any liability or
obligation of any other Person in any   manner, whether directly or indirectly, including
any agreement to indemnify or hold harmless   any other Person, any performance bond or other
suretyship arrangement and any other form of assurance against loss, except
endorsement of negotiable or other instruments for deposit or  collection in the ordinary course of
business. 

  (w)                Hedging
Contract Policies       shall mean the written internal policies and  

procedures with respect to hedging or trading of
gas contracts or other commodity, hedging contracts of any kind, or any
derivatives or other similar financial instruments of   NJRC   and its
Subsidiaries, as  in effect on the date of
this Agreement and as hereafter amended    from time to time  , a copy of which has been delivered to the Bank.  

  (x)                  Hedging
Transaction        shall mean any transaction entered into by a Loan Party or any of its
Subsidiaries in accordance with the Hedging Contract Policies.   

  (y)                Hybrid Security      shall mean any of the following:
(i) beneficial interests   issued by a
trust which constitutes a Subsidiary of   the Borrowers  , substantially all of the assets   of which trust are unsecured Indebtedness of   the Borrowers   or any Subsidiary of   the Borrowers   or proceeds thereof,
and all payments of which Indebtedness are required to be, and are,   distributed to the
holders of beneficial interests in such trust promptly after receipt by such
trust,   or
(ii) any shares of capital stock or other equity interest that, other than
solely at the option of   the issuer thereof, by their terms (or by the terms of
any security into which they are convertible   or exchangeable) are, or upon the happening of an
event or the passage of time would be,   required to be redeemed or repurchased, in whole
or in part, or have, or upon the happening of an   event or the passage of time would have, a
redemption or similar payment.  

  (z)               Indebtedness      shall mean, as to any Person at any
time, any and all indebtedness, obligations or liabilities (whether matured or
unmatured, liquidated or   unliquidated,
direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, or joint or several) of such Person
for or in respect of: (i) borrowed money, (ii) amounts raised under or
liabilities in respect of any note   purchase
or acceptance credit facility, (iii) reimbursement obligations (contingent or
otherwise)   under any letter of
credit, currency swap agreement, interest rate swap, cap, collar or floor   agreement or other interest rate or currency
exchange rate management device, (iv) any other   transaction (including forward sale or purchase agreements, capitalized
leases and conditional   sales
agreements) having the commercial effect of a borrowing of money entered into
by such   Person to finance its
operations or capital requirements (but not including trade payables and   accrued expenses incurred in the ordinary course
of business which are not represented by a promissory note or other evidence of
indebtedness and which are not more than thirty (30) days   past due), (v) any Hedging Transaction, to the
extent that any indebtedness, obligations or   liabilities of such Person in respect thereof constitutes  indebtedness 
as determined in   accordance with
GAAP, (vi) any Guaranty of any Hedging Transaction described in the  immediately
preceding clause (v),  (vii) any Guaranty of
Indebtedness for borrowed money,   (viii)
any Hybrid Security described in clause (i) of the definition of Hybrid
Security, or (ix) the mandatory repayment obligation of the issuer of any
Hybrid Security described in clause (ii) of  the definition of Hybrid
Security. 

  (aa)           Interest Payment
Date   shall mean the last  Business Day of each calendar month and the Credit Facility Termination Date. 

  ( bb)           Lien   shall mean
any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, lien, security interest, charge or other
encumbrance or security arrangement of any nature whatsoever, whether
voluntarily or involuntarily given, including any conditional sale or title
retention arrangement, 

and any assignment, deposit arrangement or lease intended as, or having
the effect of, security and any filed financing statement or other notice of
any of the foregoing (whether or not a lien or other encumbrance is created or
exists at the time of the filing).  

  (cc)           Loan   shall
mean any loan of Dollars made by the Bank to the Borrowers under Section 3 of
this Agreement.  

  (dd)           Materially
Adverse Effect   shall mean, (i) with respect to any Person, any materially
adverse effect on such Person s assets, liabilities, financial condition or
results of operations, (ii) with respect to any contract, agreement or other
obligation (other than this Agreement), any materially adverse effect, as to
any party thereto, upon the binding nature thereof or the validity or
enforceability thereof and (iii) with respect to this Agreement, any materially
adverse effect on the legality, binding nature, validity or enforceability
thereof.  

  (ee)            Maximum
Permissible Rate   shall mean, with respect to interest payable on any
amount, the rate of interest on such amount that, if exceeded, could, under
Applicable Law, result in (i) civil or criminal penalties being imposed on the
Bank or (ii) the Bank s being unable to enforce payment of (or, if collected,
retain) all or any part of such amount or the interest payable thereon.  

  (ff)             Official Body  
shall mean any national, federal, state, local or other government or political
subdivision or any agency, authority, board, bureau, central bank, commission,
department or instrumentality of either, or any court, tribunal, grand jury or
arbitrator, in each case whether foreign or domestic.  

  (gg )           Overnight Fed Funds   Open   Rate   shall mean,
for any day, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal to the weighted
average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of
the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published for
such day (and, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding
Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as posted on the page entitled  FED FUNDS OVERNIGHT
  TERM  on a Bloomberg Terminal, referenced in Exhibit A hereto or, if such rate is not so published for any
day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such
transactions received by the Bank from three federal funds brokers of
recognized standing selected by the Bank. 

  (hh )           Overnight F  ed Funds   Rate   Loan   shall mean any Loan that bears interest at the Overnight Fed
Funds Open Rate. 

  (ii)             Permitted Liens  
shall mean any and all (i) Liens for Taxes, assessments or other governmental
charges or levies not at the time delinquent or thereafter payable without penalty;
(ii) Liens in favor of carriers, materialmen, warehousemen, mechanics,
landlords,  

suppliers, lessors or other like Liens incurred in the ordinary course
of business for sums not overdue and Liens of landlords securing obligations to
pay lease payments that are not yet overdue or in default;(iii) pledges or
deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure payment of workmen s
compensation, or to participate in any fund in connection with workmen s
compensation, unemployment insurance, old-age pensions or other social security
programs; (iv) any Lien arising out of judgments or awards but only to the
extent that the creation of any such Lien shall not be an event or condition
which, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would cause Borrower to
be in violation of Section 11(i); (v) security interests in favor of lessors of
personal property, which property is the subject of a true lease; (vi)
good-faith pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business to
secure performance of bids, tenders, contracts (other than for the repayment of
borrowed money) or leases, not in excess of the aggregate amount due
thereunder, or to secure statutory obligations, or surety, appeal, indemnity,
performance or other similar bonds required in the ordinary course of business;
(vii) encumbrances consisting of zoning restrictions, easements, rights-of-way
or other restrictions on the use of real property and minor defects to title to
real property, none of which materially impairs the use of such property or the
value thereof; (viii) Liens on property leased by any Borrower or Subsidiary of
a Borrower securing obligations of such Borrower or Subsidiary to the lessor
under such leases, to the extent the payments or other amounts due and owing under
any such lease constitute Indebtedness; (ix) any Lien existing on the date of
this Agreement and described on Schedule  A, provided, that, to the extent any such Lien
secures Indebtedness permitted hereunder, such Lien may continue to secure any
renewals or extensions of such Indebtedness permitted so long as (A) the
principal amount of the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is not hereafter
increased and (B) no additional assets become subject to such Lien, such
Indebtedness is permitted; (x) Purchase Money Security Interests, provided,
that the aggregate amount of loans and deferred payments secured by such
Purchase Money Security Interests shall not exceed $20,000,000 (excluding for
the purpose of this computation any loans or deferred payments secured by Liens
described on Schedule A); (xi) the following, (A) if the validity or amount thereof is being
contested in good faith by appropriate and lawful proceedings diligently
conducted so long as levy and execution thereon have been stayed and continue to
be stayed or (B) if a final judgment is entered and such judgment is discharged
within thirty (30) days of entry, and could not be reasonably expected to
result in a Material Adverse Effect:  (1)
claims or Liens for Taxes due and payable and subject to interest or penalty,
provided that the applicable Borrower maintains such reserves or other
appropriate provisions as shall be required by GAAP and pays all such Taxes
forthwith upon the commencement of proceedings to foreclose any such Lien; (2)
claims, Liens or encumbrances upon, and defects of title to, real or personal
property, including any attachment of personal or real property or other legal
process prior to adjudication of a dispute on the merits; or (3) claims or
Liens of mechanics, materialmen, warehousemen, carriers, or other statutory
nonconsensual Liens; and (xii) any other Liens disclosed by the Borrowers to
the Bank and consented to in writing by the Bank. 

  (jj)             Person  
shall mean any individual, sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership,
trust, unincorporated association, mutual company, joint stock company, trade
association or other business organization.  

(kk)           Post-Default Rate  
shall mean a rate of interest per annum equal to the Prime Rate as in effect
from time to time plus two percent (2%).  

  (ll)             Prime Rate  
shall mean the rate of interest per annum publicly announced by the Bank from
time to time in the City of New York as its  prime rate , which rate of
interest may not be the lowest or best rate of interest offered by the Bank at
any given time to any class of  borrower.  Any
change in the Prime Rate shall result in an immediate corresponding change in
any rate of interest based on the Prime Rate. 

  (mm)         Purchase Money
Security Interest   shall mean Liens upon tangible personal property
securing loans to any Borrower or Subsidiary of a Borrower or deferred payments
by such Borrower or Subsidiary for the purchase of such tangible personal
property.  

  (nn)           SEC   shall
mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any governmental agencies
substituted therefor.  

  (oo)           SEC Filings  
shall mean NJRC s Form 10-K, filed with the SEC for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2005 and Forms 10-Q, the first filed with the SEC for the fiscal
quarter ended December 31, 2005, the second filed with SEC for the fiscal
quarter ended March 31, 2006 and the third filed with the SEC for the fiscal
quarter ended June 30, 2006.  

  (pp)           Subsidiary  
shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person (i) the securities of
which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of
directors (or other persons having similar functions) or (ii) the other
ownership interests of which ordinarily constituting a majority voting
interest, are at the time, directly or indirectly, owned or controlled by such
first Person, or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by such first Person
and one or more of its Subsidiaries; unless otherwise specified,  Subsidiary 
means a Subsidiary of the Borrowers.  

  (qq)           Tax   shall
mean any federal, state or foreign tax, assessment or other governmental charge
or levy (including withholding tax) upon a Person or upon its assets, revenues,
income or profits.  

  Section 2.              Terms
of the Credit .  

  (a)           Upon the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, and in reliance upon the representations and
warranties of the Borrowers set forth in Section 8 hereof, the Bank shall, from
time to time during the period from the Agreement Date to the Credit Facility
Termination Date, extend credit to the  any of the Borrowers in the form of Loans (the   Credit
Facility  ).  The sum of the aggregate
principal amounts of all outstanding Loans shall not at any time exceed Thirty Million
United States Dollars (U.S.$30,000,000.00) (the   Commitment  ).  Within the foregoing limits, the Borrowers
may borrow Loans, repay Loans, prepay Loans (to the extent permitted under
Sections 3 hereof), and re-borrow Loans on or after the Agreement Date up to 

the Business Day before the Credit Facility Termination Date, in
accordance with the terms hereof.  

  (b)           The Borrowers may
reduce the Commitment by giving the Bank notice (which shall be irrevocable)
thereof no later than 10:00 a.m. (New York time) on the fifth Business Day
before the requested date of such reduction.  

  (c)            Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that each
Borrower shall be liable, on an conditional joint and several basis, for all of
Loans and other obligations hereunder, and further acknowledges and agrees that
Loans to any Borrower inure to the mutual benefit of all of the Borrowers and
that the Bank is relying on the unconditional joint and several liability of
the Borrowers in extending Loans hereunder. 

  Section 3.              The
Loans .  

  (a)           The Loans shall be
made in integral multiples of $500,000.00.  

  (b)           For each proposed
Loan,  a Borrower shall give the Bank written notice of its proposal (which
notice shall be irrevocable) no later than 9:00 a.m. (New York time) on the disbursement date
for such Loan that is an Overnight Fed
Funds Rate Loan.  Each such notice shall specify (i) the
requested disbursement date of the proposed Loan, which disbursement date shall
be a Business Day, and (ii) the amount of such proposed Loan.  Such notice for the extension of a Loan shall
be (i) executed by purportedly duly authorized officers of such Borrower
and (ii) made by telecopier, or telex, to be confirmed in writing or by
telephone.  A Borrower
shall notify the Bank in writing of the names of their respective officers
authorized to request Loans on behalf of the Borrower and
shall provide the Bank with the specimen signatures of such officers.  The proceeds of each Loan shall be disbursed
by the Bank by crediting a Borrower s designated account at ICAP Futures, L.L.C., until further written notice by
Borrower, with immediately
available funds or in such other manner as may be acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank.  Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, if a Borrower shall properly and timely request a
Loan under this subsection 3(b), then the Bank shall disburse the proceeds of
such Loan no later than 12:00 p.m. (New York time) on the disbursement date
therefor. 

  (c)           Subject to Section 6
below, the Borrowers may, at any time and from time to time, prepay Loans in
whole or in part together with accrued interest, except that any partial
prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of at least
$500,000.00.   A
Borrower shall give the Bank written notice of each prepayment no later than
12:00 noon (New York time), on the date of such prepayment.  Each written notice of prepayment shall
specify the date on which prepayment is to be made and the amount to be
prepaid. 

  (d)           The Borrowers shall
repay to the Bank on the Credit Facility Termination Date the aggregate
principal of Loans outstanding on such date.  

Section 4.              Interest .  

  Unless an Event of Default is continuing, each Loan shall bear interest
on the outstanding principal amount thereof at the applicable  Overnight Fed Funds Open Rate of interest plus 0.50%;
Interest so accrued on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears to the Bank by the Borrowers on the Loan s Interest Payment
Date(s).  Nothing contained in this
Agreement or in any other documentation for the Loans shall require the
Borrowers at any time to pay interest at a rate exceeding the Maximum
Permissible Rate.  If the interest
payable to the Bank on any date would exceed the maximum amount permitted by
the Maximum Permissible Rate, such interest payment shall be reduced
automatically to such maximum permitted amount, and interest for any subsequent
period, to the extent less than the maximum amount permitted for such period by
the Maximum Permissible Rate, shall be increased by the unpaid amount of such
reduction.  During an Event of Default,
each Loan (whether or not due) and, to the maximum extent permitted by
Applicable Law, each other amount due and payable hereunder shall bear interest
at the applicable Post-Default Rate, which interest shall be payable on
demand.  Interest payable under this
Agreement shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days and paid on the
actual number of days elapsed. 

  Section 5.              Payments
by the Borrowers .  

  (a)            Time, Place and
Manner .  All payments due to the Bank
under this Agreement shall be made to the Bank at the Bank s Office or at such
other address in the City of New York as the Bank may designate.  Except as otherwise specified in this
Agreement, a payment shall not be deemed to have been made on any day unless
such payment has been received at the required place of payment, in Dollars and
in funds immediately available, no later than 2:00 p.m. (New York time) on such
day.  

  (b)            No Reductions .  All payments due to the Bank under this
Agreement shall be made by  each Borrower without any reduction or deduction
whatsoever, including any reduction or deduction for any set-off, recoupment,
counterclaim (whether sounding in tort, contract or otherwise) or Tax, except
for any withholding or deduction for Taxes required to be withheld or deducted
under Applicable Law. 

  (c)            Taxes .  If any Tax is required to be withheld or
deducted from, or is otherwise payable by the  any Borrower
in connection with, any payment due to the Bank under this Agreement, such Borrower
(i) shall, if required, withhold or deduct the amount of such Tax from such
payment and, in any case, pay such Tax to the appropriate taxing authority in
accordance with Applicable Law and (ii) shall pay to the Bank such additional
amounts as may be necessary so that the net amount received by the Bank with
respect to such payment, after withholding or deducting all Taxes required to
be withheld or deducted, is equal to the full amount payable under this
Agreement. If any Tax is withheld or deducted from any payment due to the Bank
under this Agreement, such Borrower shall, within thirty (30) days after the date of such payment,
furnish to the Bank the original or a certified copy of a receipt for such Tax
from the applicable taxing authority. 

(d)            Authorization to
Charge Accounts .   Each Borrower
hereby authorizes the Bank, if and to the extent any amount payable by any Borrower
under this Agreement is not otherwise paid when due, to charge such amount
against any or all of the accounts any Borrower maintains with any branch or office
of the Bank or its Affiliates (as if the Bank and its Affiliates were one and
the same entity), with the Borrowers remaining liable for any deficiency. 

  (e)            Extension of
Payment Dates .  Unless otherwise
provided herein, whenever any payment to the Bank under this Agreement shall be
due (otherwise than by reason of acceleration) on a day that is not a Business
Day, the date of payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding
Business Day.  If the date for any
payment under this Agreement is extended, such payment shall bear interest for
such extended time at the rate of interest applicable hereunder.  

  Section 6.              Loan
Prepayment and    Funding Losses  ;   Overnight
Fed Funds Open Rate Funding . 

  Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Bank
determines (which determination shall be binding and conclusive) that
quotations of interest rates for the relevant deposits in the definition of  Overnight Fed Funds Open Rate in Section 1 are not being provided in the
approximate relevant amounts or for the relevant maturities for purposes of
determining the rates of interest for Overnight
Fed Funds Rate Loans, then the
Bank shall give the Borrowers prompt notice thereof, and so long as such
condition remains in effect, the Bank shall be under no obligation to make any
Loans based on such definition, and the Bank and the Borrowers shall agree
forthwith to make Loans based on another mutually acceptable base rate. 

  Section 7.                Evidence
of Indebtedness .  

  (a)           The
  Bank shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or
accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower  s   to   the   Bank resulting from each Loan made by   the   Bank, including the amounts
of principal and interest payable and paid to   the   Bank from time to time.    (b)   The Bank shall maintain
accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder,
(ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due
and payable from   each   Borrower to   the   Bank hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Bank
hereunder for the account of the Banks  .  

  (c)           T he entries made in the accounts maintained
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section shall be prima facie
evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein;  provided 
that any failure by the Bank to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not affect
the Borrowers obligation to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement. 

(d)           The  Bank may request that Loans made by it be
evidenced by a promissory note.  In such
event, the Borrowers shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Bank a promissory note
payable to the order of the Bank (or, if requested by the Bank,
to the
Bank and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Bank.  Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such
promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times be represented by one
or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named
therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and
its registered assigns). 

  Section 8.              Representations
and Warranties of the Borrowers .  

  In order to induce the Bank to enter into this Agreement and to extend
the Credit Facility to the Borrowers,  each Borrower hereby represents and
warrants the following to the Bank as of the Agreement Date: 

  (a)            Each Borrower
(i) is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing
under the laws of the jurisdiction of its creation, (ii) has all requisite organizational
power, authority and legal right to conduct its business as now conducted and
as contemplated by its certificate of incorporation and by-laws, to make
borrowings hereunder, to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and to
consummate the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder, and (iii) is
duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in
which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or in which the
transaction of its business makes such qualifications necessary, except that
this Section (a)(iii) shall not apply to qualifications the lack of which,
singly or in the aggregate, has not had and will not have a Materially Adverse
Effect on each Borrower. 

  (b)           E ach Borrower
is not in violation of its by-laws or certificate of incorporation or in
default in the performance or observance of any material obligation, agreement,
covenant or condition contained in any material contract, indenture, mortgage,
loan agreement or lease to which each Borrower is a party or by which it may be
bound.  The execution and delivery of any
of this Agreement and the incurrence of the obligations and the consummation of
the transactions herein and therein contemplated will not conflict with, or
constitute a breach of or default under, certificate of incorporation or
by-laws of each Borrower or any material contractual restriction, instrument,
indenture, mortgage, agreement or lease to which each Borrower is a party or by which it may be
bound, or any law, administrative rule or regulation or court decree. 

  (c)           This Agreement has
been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Borrowers, and constitutes
a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrowers enforceable in
accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws
affecting the enforcement of creditors  rights generally or by general
principles of equity.  

(d)           No consent,
approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any
court, any regulatory authority or other governmental agency or body is
required for the execution or delivery of this Agreement by  each Borrower
or for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. 

  (e)           No Default has
occurred and is continuing.  

  (f)            Except as set forth in the SEC
Filings, there are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations pending or,
to the knowledge of any of the Borrower, threatened against such Borrower
before any court, tribunal, governmental authority or any body or Person with
judicial or quasi-judicial authority which has a significant possibility of
having a Materially Adverse Effect on  any of the Borrowers or its ability
to perform under this Agreement. 

  (g)            Each Borrower
has filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns required to have been filed and
has paid all Taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns or on any
assessments made against them (other than those being contested in good faith)
and, to the best of each Borrower s knowledge, no Tax Liens have been filed and no claims are
being asserted with respect to such Taxes which are not reflected in the
financial statements referred to in Section 10(c) hereof, which, if adversely determined,
would, in the aggregate, have a Materially Adverse Effect on the value of the
total enterprise represented by any of the Borrowers. 

  (h)            No Borrower
is an  investment
company  within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. 

  (i)             Each Borrower
is currently
in compliance with all Applicable Laws (including, without limitation, ERISA
and Environmental Laws), the non-compliance with which would have a Materially
Adverse Effect on any Borrower under this Agreement. 

  (j)            No fact or
circumstance, to the best of  each Borrower s present knowledge, either alone or in
conjunction with all other such facts and circumstances, has had or might in
the future have (so far as each Borrower can foresee) a Materially Adverse
Effect on any Borrower under this Agreement. 

  Section 9.              Conditions
Precedent .  

  (a)           The obligation of
the Bank to enter into this Credit Agreement and make the initial Loan is
subject to satisfaction of the following conditions:  

  (i)                                         receipt by the
Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank of evidence of   each B  orrower s authority to
borrow from the Bank in the form of executed approval of its Board of
Directors;  

  (ii)                                     receipt by the Bank in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank of duly executed originals of this Agreement; 

(iii)                                  receipt by the Bank in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank of a secretary s certificate as to the signature and
incumbency of the officers of each Borrower executing this Agreement; 

  (iv)                                 receipt by the Bank in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank of certified copies of the each Borrower s
certificate of incorporation and by-laws, together with any amendments thereto. 

  (b)           The making of each
Loan (including the initial Loan) shall be subject to the Bank s reasonable
determination that each of the following conditions has been fulfilled:  (i) the Bank shall have received a notice of
borrowing prepared and delivered in accordance with the terms of Section 3
hereof;  (ii) the Bank shall have
received all applicable documents, information and other items required by this
Agreement;  (iii) each representation and
warranty contained in Section 8 hereof shall be true and correct at and as of
the date any Loan is made (except representations and warranties which
expressly relate solely to an earlier date or time, which representations and
warranties shall be true and correct on and as of the specific dates or times
referred to therein); (iv) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at
the time any Loan is to be made; and (v) such Loan shall not contravene any
Applicable Law applicable to the Bank.  

  Section 10.              Covenants
of the Borrowers .  

  From the date hereof and until the  Credit Facility shall have been terminated or have expired and all amounts due
hereunder are paid in full: 

  (a)
            Each   Borrower shall not
consolidate with, merge into, or acquire, any other Person or permit any other
Person to consolidate with, merge into, or acquire, it without the prior
written consent of the Bank unless (i)   any   Borrower is the surviving entity, (ii)   such   Borrower provides the Bank
with at least 30 days prior written notice of any such consolidation, merger or
acquisition, (iii) based on projections and financial statements prepared in
accordance with the accounting standards generally employed in the preparation
of    each   Borrowers      financial reports and such other information
as the Bank may reasonably request, any such consolidation, merger or
acquisition will result in a surviving entity having a  Net Worth  that is
equal to or greater than the Net Worth of the    such    Borrower immediately prior
to such consolidation, merger or acquisition and (iv) said surviving entity
shall fully assume liability for the performance of all obligations under this
Agreement.  For the purposes of this
Agreement,  Net Worth  shall mean stockholders  equity as determined in
accordance with the accounting standards generally employed in the preparation
of a   Borrower s   financial
reports.  

  (b)           The
Borrower s will not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
assets, except that this Section 10(b) shall not apply to (i) any disposition of
assets, including, but not limited to, the sale of inventory, in the ordinary
course of business; (ii) any sale, transfer, lease or other disposition of
assets which are no longer necessary or required in the conduct of Borrowers 
business as currently conducted or any disposition of obsolete or retired
property not 

useful to the Borrower s; (iii)
any sale, transfer or lease of assets in the ordinary course of business which
are replaced by substitute assets acquired or leased; or (iv) any sale,
transfer or lease of assets, other than those specifically excepted pursuant to
clauses (i) through (iii) above, provided that (A) at the time of any
disposition, no Event of Default shall exist or shall result from such
disposition, and (B) the aggregate net book value of all assets so sold by the Borrowers shall not exceed
in any fiscal year five (5%) of the consolidated total assets of the Borrowers as determined on a
consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. 

  (c)             (i)
  NJRC   shall submit to the Bank, in reasonable detail
and within   nine  ty (  9  0) days
following the close of each fiscal year of   NJRC (or such earlier or later date, from time to time established by the
SEC in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended),   certified copies of the complete annual
financial statements of   NJRC   and its consolidated Subsidiaries,
including, but not limited to, the balance sheet and profit and loss statement
for such fiscal year including statements of income, retained earnings and cash
flows of   NJRC   for such annual period.  The Borrower  s   will be deemed
to have complied with the delivery requirements of this Section 10(c)(i) if
within ninety (90) days after the end of their fiscal year (or such earlier or
later date, from time to time established by the SEC in accordance with the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the Borrowers deliver to the Bank
a copy of its Annual Report and Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and the
financial statements and certification of public accountants contained therein
meets the requirements described in this Section.  

  (ii)  NJRC shall submit to the Bank, in reasonable detail and as soon as
available and in any event within forty five (45) days after the close of each fiscal quarter
of NJRC (or such earlier or later date, from time to time
established by the SEC in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended), copies of the
complete financial statements of NJRC and its consolidated Subsidiaries, including,
but not limited to, the balance sheet and profit and loss statement for such
periods including statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows of NJRC
for such quarterly period.  The Borrowers
will be deemed to have complied with the delivery requirements of this Section
10(c)(ii) if within forty-five (45) days after the end of their fiscal quarter
(or such earlier or later date, from time to time established by the SEC in
accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the Borrowers
deliver to the Bank a copy of its Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC and the
financial statements contained therein meets the requirements described in this
Section. 

  (iii) Such financial reports shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP
applied consistently to all applicable periods, shall present fairly the
financial condition of  NJRC and its consolidated Subsidiaries and shall
be accompanied by a certificate of a duly authorized officer of NJRC
stating that he has made or caused to be made a review of NJRC s
transactions and condition during the relevant period of NJRC
covered by such financial reports and that such review has not disclosed the
existence of any event or condition which constitutes a Default or, if any such
condition existed or exists, the nature thereof and the action the Borrowers
has taken or proposes to take with respect thereto. 

(iv) Each Borrower shall submit to the Bank, in reasonable detail and
as soon as available, such further information regarding the condition or operations,
financial or otherwise, of each Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as the Bank from
may time to time reasonably request, provided that such request shall be in
connection with required reporting by the Bank to a regulatory agency.  

  (d)            Each Borrower
shall (i) preserve and maintain its existence and all of its franchises,
licenses, rights and privileges required for the conduct of business, (ii) preserve and maintain insurance with responsible insurance companies against at
least such risks and in at least such amounts as it customarily maintained by
similar businesses, or as may be required by Applicable Law, (iii)
preserve, protect and obtain all intellectual property, and preserve and
maintain in good repair, working order and condition all other properties,
required for the conduct of its business, (iv) not make any changes in its business
activities that have a Materially Adverse Effect on each  Borrower (except as otherwise permitted under
this Agreement), (v) comply in all material respects with all Applicable Law
(including ERISA and Environmental Laws), (vi) pay or discharge when due all Taxes and all
Indebtedness that can be reasonably expected to become a Lien on any of its
properties, except to the extent that any such Lien is contested in good faith
by such Borrower
in proper proceedings promptly instituted and diligently pursued to the
reasonable satisfaction of the Bank and that such Borrower shall maintain adequate reserves for
the satisfaction of such Lien in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles,  (vii) not create, assume or incur, or permit or suffer
to exist or to be created, assumed or incurred, any Lien (except a Permitted
Lien) upon any of its properties or assets of any character, whether now owned
or hereafter acquired, or upon any income or profits therefrom, and
(viii)
take all action and obtain all consents and Governmental Approvals required so
that its obligations hereunder will at all times be legal, valid and binding
and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms. 

  (e)           If any law,
guideline or interpretation or any change in any law, guideline or
interpretation or application thereof by any Official Body charged with the
interpretation or administration thereof or compliance with any request or
directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any central bank or other
Official Body:  

  (i)                                         subjects the
Bank to any tax or changes the basis of taxation with respect to this
Agreement, the Loans or payments by any Borrower of principal, interest or
other amounts due from the Borrowers hereunder (except for taxes on the overall
net income of the Bank),  

  (ii)                                     imposes, modifies or deems applicable any reserve,
special deposit or similar requirement against credits or commitments to extend
credit extended by, or assets (funded or contingent) of deposits with or for
the account of, or other acquisitions of funds by, the Bank or any lending
office of the Bank, or 

(iii)                                  imposes, modifies or deems applicable any capital
adequacy or similar requirement (A) against assets (funded or contingent) of,
other credits or commitments to extend credit extended by, the Bank, or (B)
otherwise applicable to the obligations of the Bank or any lending office of
the Bank under this Agreement, 

  and the
result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to, reduce the income
receivable by, or impose any expense (including loss of margin) upon the Bank
or any lending office of the Bank with respect to this Agreement or the making,
maintenance or funding of any part of the Loans (or, in the case of any capital
adequacy or similar requirement, to have the effect of reducing the rate of
return on the Bank s capital, taking into consideration the Bank s customary
policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount which the Bank, in its
reasonable discretion, deems to be material, the Bank shall from time to time
notify the Borrowers of the amount determined in good faith (using any
averaging and attribution methods employed in good faith) by the Bank to be
necessary to compensate the Bank for such increase in cost, reduction in
income, additional expense or reduced rate of return.  Such notice shall set forth in reasonable
detail the basis for such determination and shall, in the absence of manifest
error, be presumed to be correct and binding for all purposes.  Such amount shall be due and payable by the
Borrowers within thirty (30) Business Days after written demand by the Bank.  

  ( f)            Each Borrower covenants
and agrees that this Agreement will at all times constitute direct, binding and
enforceable obligations of the Borrowers. 

  (g)           Promptly upon
becoming aware of the existence of any condition or event which could have a
Materially Adverse Effect on, or constitute a default or Default under, this
Agreement, the Borrowers will provide written notice to the Bank specifying the
nature and period of existence thereof and the action the Borrowers is taking
or propose(s) to take with respect thereto.  

  ( h)           The Borrowers shall
use the proceeds of the Loans only for general corporate purposes including
working fund of the Borrowers. None of the proceeds of the Loans shall be used
to purchase or carry, or to reduce, retire or refinance any credit incurred to
purchase or carry, any margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) or to extend credit to others
for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. 

  ( i)            Each Borrower shall ensure that at all times the
obligations of the Borrowers hereunder shall constitute unconditional general
obligations of the Borrowers ranking in priority of payment at least  pari
passu  with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the
Borrowers. 

  (j)            NJRC
shall not and shall not permit any Subsidiary of NJRC to change its fiscal year
from the twelve-month period beginning October 1 and ending September 30.  

(k)           Each
Borrower shall not at any time permit the ratio of Consolidated Total
Indebtedness of the NJRC and its Subsidiaries to Consolidated Total
Capitalization to exceed 0.65 to 1.00.  

  (l)            Each
Borrower shall not permit the ratio of Consolidated Income from Operations to
Consolidated Interest Expense of NJRC and its Subsidiaries, calculated as of
the end of each fiscal quarter for the four fiscal quarters then ended, to be
less than 2.50 to 1.00.  

  (m)          NJRC
  shall submit to the
Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, at the time of delivery
of the financial statements provided for in Section 1  0  
(  c  ) above, a certificate of an officer of   NJRC  ,
demonstrating compliance with Sections 1  0  (  k)     and   1  0  (  l  )
hereof as of the close of   each   fiscal   year   of
  NJRC  .  

  Section 11.              Events
of Default .  

  If any of the following events (each individually referred to herein as
an  Event of Default ) shall occur:  

  (a)            any Borrower
shall fail to pay in full in the manner provided herein (i) any
principal due hereunder, or  (ii) any interest
or other amount due hereunder within three (3) Business Days after such
interest, fee, or other amount becomes due in accordance with the terms hereof;
or 

  (b)            any Borrower
shall fail to perform, comply with or observe any of its obligations under any
of Sections 10(a), 10(b), 10(f), 10(g), 10(h),
10(i), 10(j), 10(k), or 10(l) of
this Agreement; or 

  (c)            any Borrower shall fail to perform any of its
other obligations under this Agreement and such failure shall not be remedied
within thirty (30) Business Days after the occurrence thereof;  or 

  (d)           any representation
or warranty of  any Borrower contained herein or in any certificate or document furnished
to the Bank shall prove to be incorrect or misleading in any material respect
when made;  or 

  (e)           a judicial order
shall be made, or an effective resolution passed by the Board of the applicable
Borrower, for the winding up of  any Borrower, or any Borrower, or any Borrower shall cease to conduct its
business in the manner conducted as of the date hereof, or any Borrower
shall take any steps whatsoever to effect, approve or facilitate any of the
foregoing in any way, except as expressly permitted under the terms of this
Agreement; or 

(f)            any Borrower:  (i) shall generally not, or shall be unable
to, or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts as such debts
mature;  or (ii) shall make an assignment
for the benefit of its creditors;  (iii)
shall petition or apply to any tribunal or other body for the appointment of a
custodian, receiver, trustee or the like for it or for a substantial part of
its assets, whether domestic or foreign; (iv) shall commence any proceeding
under any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, readjustment of debt,
dissolution or liquidation law or statute of any jurisdiction, whether now or
hereafter in effect and whether domestic, international or foreign;  (v) shall have had any such petition or
application filed or any such proceeding shall have been commenced against it,
in which an adjudication or appointment is made or order for relief is entered,
and such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed and in effect for a
period of sixty (60) consecutive days or such court shall enter a decree or order
granting any of the relief sought in such proceeding; (vi) shall be the subject
of any proceeding under which a material portion of its assets may be subject
to seizure, forfeiture, or divestiture, and such proceeding shall remain
undismissed or unstayed and in effect for a period of sixty (60) consecutive
days or such court shall enter a decree or order granting any of the relief
sought in such proceeding; (vii) by any act or omission shall indicate its
consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such petition, application,
proceeding, order for relief, or appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee
or the like; (viii) shall suffer any such custodianship, receivership,
trusteeship, or comparable status and such appointment shall remain undismissed
or unstayed and in effect for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days; (ix)
shall take any corporate, partnership or other action whatsoever to approve,
facilitate or effectuate any of the foregoing in any way; or  

  (g)           any authorization,
consent, approval, registration or license now or hereafter necessary to enable
the Borrowers to comply with its material obligations hereunder shall expire,
be revoked, be withheld or otherwise be ineffective and such expiration,
revocation or other ineffectiveness shall continue unremedied for a period of
thirty (30) Business Days  after an
Authorized Officer becomes aware of the occurrence thereof; 

  (h)           (i) either  any Borrower
or any
Subsidiary of the Borrowers shall fail to pay when due and payable (whether at
maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, beyond any grace period with respect
thereto, whether waived or not) any principal, premium or interest on any
Indebtedness and any such failure(s) to pay shall in the aggregate exceed
$10,000,000; or (ii) the maturity of any such Indebtedness exceeding
$10,000,000 in aggregate shall have been accelerated or have been required to
be prepaid prior to the stated maturity date thereof in accordance with the
terms of any agreement or instrument evidencing, providing for the creation of,
or concerning, such Indebtedness; or 

  (i)            any final judgments
or orders for the payment of money in excess of $10,000,000 in the aggregate
shall be entered against any Borrower , or any Subsidiary of the Borrowers, and such judgments, or orders  are not
discharged, vacated, bonded or stayed pending appeal within a period of thirty (30)
days from the date of entry  provided ,  however 
that any such judgment or order shall not been an Event of Default under this
Section 11(i) if and so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is
covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and
the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which 

shall be
rated at least  A  by A.M Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed
the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order   ; 

  (j)             any Borrower
shall fail to perform under any agreement, lease, mortgage, indenture or other
contractual arrangement between any Borrower and the Bank or any of its
Affiliates such that an amount in excess of $5,000,000 shall remain outstanding
past the date on which it was due and payable; or 

  (  k  )             NJRC   shall fail to own, either directly or indirectly and free of any
Liens,   100%   of the   capital stock   of the   NJRESC  ;  

  THEREUPON, the Bank may, in addition to enforcing all other rights and
remedies available to it under Applicable Law or any contract, agreement or
instrument, (i) upon notice to the Borrowers, declare the Bank s agreement to
make Loans hereunder to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith
terminate, and (ii) upon notice to the Borrowers declare all amounts, if any,
not otherwise immediately due under this Agreement or in respect of any Loan to
be, and all such amounts shall thereupon become, due and payable to the
Bank.  Upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default specified in Section 11(e) or 11(f), automatically and without any
notice to the Borrowers, the agreements of the Bank to make Loans hereunder
shall be terminated and all amounts, if any, not otherwise immediately due
under this Agreement or in respect of any Loan shall be immediately due and
payable to the Bank.  Presentment,
demand, protest or notice of any kind (other than the notice provided for in
the immediately preceding sentence) are expressly waived, anything in this
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding. 
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Bank shall also have the
right to terminate in its sole discretion any and all related swap, swaption,
option, cap, collar and other derivative product arrangements of any kind
entered into by the Bank in order to provide funding under this Agreement.  

  Section 12.              Illegality .  

  If, after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any Applicable
Law, any change therein or any change in the interpretation or administration
thereof by any government, governmental agency or authority, court, tribunal,
central bank or other comparable body charged with the interpretation or
administration thereof or compliance by the Bank with any subsequently adopted
interpretation, request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the
force of law) of any such government, governmental agency or authority, court,
tribunal, central bank or other comparable body shall make it unlawful or
impossible for the Bank to maintain this Agreement or any Loan, then the Bank
shall so notify the Borrowers and no Loans not permitted under Applicable Law
shall be made and all outstanding Loans not permitted under Applicable Law
shall become due and payable, without premium or penalty, upon the Borrowers 
receipt of such notice (or on such earlier or later date as may be required by
such Applicable Law, interpretation, guideline, request or directive).  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
set forth in this Section, to the extent permitted under Applicable Law, Loans
so  

accelerated shall first be converted to Loans bearing interest based on
a different rate available hereunder.  

  Section 13.              Governing
Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial .  

  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with,
the internal laws of the State of New York without regard to conflicts of law
principles.   Each Borrower
irrevocably agrees that any Credit Agreement Related Claim may be brought in
any Federal or New York State Court located in the City of New York and, by the
execution and delivery of this Agreement, each Borrower hereby irrevocably accepts and
submits to the jurisdiction of each of the aforesaid courts  in personam ,
generally and unconditionally, with respect to any such action or proceedings
for itself and in respect of its property, assets and revenues.  Each Borrower hereby also irrevocably waives, to
the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or
hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding brought
in any such court and any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in
such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.  Each Borrower further irrevocably consents to
service of process out of said courts by mailing a copy thereof, by registered
or certified mail, postage prepaid, to itself, and irrevocably waives, to the
fullest extent permitted by law, all claim of error by reason of such service
in any legal action or proceeding brought in accordance herewith.  Each Borrower irrevocably waives, in any legal
action or proceeding in any jurisdiction (whether for an injunction, specific
performance, damages or otherwise), any right or claim of immunity of any kind
with respect to itself or its assets including, without limitation, from
attachment or execution of judgment, and 
each Borrower irrevocably agrees that it and its assets are and shall be
subject to any legal action or proceeding, attachment or execution in respect
to its obligations under this Agreement. 
Each Borrower hereby irrevocably agrees that the Bank shall not be liable
for, and each Borrower waives and agrees not to seek any special, indirect or
consequential damages arising out of any claim related to this Agreement.  EACH BORROWER AND THE BANK EACH HEREBY WAIVE TRIAL
BY JURY IN ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING TO WHICH THEY ARE BOTH PARTIES INVOLVING ANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT RELATED CLAIM. 

  Section 14.              Miscellaneous .  

  (a)            Each Borrower shall, on demand, pay or reimburse
the Bank for all fees, costs and expenses (including reasonable fees and
disbursements of legal counsel and other experts employed or retained by the
Bank) incurred, and all payments made, and indemnify and hold the Bank harmless
from and against all losses suffered, by the Bank in connection with, arising
out of, or in any way related to (i) consulting with respect to any matter in
any way arising out of, related to, or connected with this Agreement including (A) the protection, preservation, exercise or enforcement by
the Bank of any of its rights under or related to this Agreement or (B) the performance by the Bank of any of its obligations under or
related to this Agreement, (ii) protecting, preserving, exercising or
enforcing any of the rights of the Bank under or related to this Agreement, (iii) any Credit Agreement Related Claim (whether asserted by the
Bank or any Borrower or any other Person and whether asserted before or after the date 

hereof ), and the
prosecution or defense thereof, or (iv) any governmental investigation arising
out of, related to, or in any way connected with this
Agreement or the relationship
established hereunder, except that the foregoing indemnity shall not be
applicable to any loss suffered by the Bank to the extent such loss is
determined by a judgment of a court referred to in the second sentence Section
13
hereof that is binding on the Borrowers and the Bank, final and not subject to
review on appeal, to be the result of acts or omissions on the part of the Bank, constituting (x) willful misconduct or (y) gross
negligence 

  (b)           Unless otherwise
provided herein, any notice or communication required to be delivered under
this Agreement, or any agreement or instrument required to be delivered
hereunder (the  Notices ) shall be in writing and shall be sent by registered
or certified U.S. mail (postage prepaid and return receipt requested), by a
reliable hand-delivery or overnight courier service or by telecopier, to
be confirmed immediately by sending the original documentation by registered or
certified U.S. mail or by a reliable hand-delivery or overnight courier
service.  Notwithstanding the foregoing
sentence, Notices may be given by telephone if confirmed in writing within
twenty-four (24) hours by sending a written version thereof by a reliable
hand-delivery or overnight courier service.  In the event of a discrepancy between any
telephonic Notice and any written confirmation thereof, such written
confirmation shall be deemed effective notice except to the extent that the
Bank has acted in reliance on such telephonic Notice.  All Notices shall be delivered or otherwise
conveyed to the parties at their respective addresses and telephone and
telecopier numbers as follows:  (i) if to
the Borrowers, at NEW JERSEY RESOURCES CORPORATION,  1415 Wyckoff Road, Wall, New Jersey 07719, Attn. Mr. Glenn C.
Lockwood; Telephone: 732-938-1482; Facsimile: 732-905-4328; and, at NJR ENERGY SERVICES COMPANY, 1415
Wyckoff Road, Wall, New Jersey 07719, Attn. Mr. Dennis Veltre; Telephone: 732-938-4541; Facsimile:732-919-8118; (ii) if to the Bank, at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, 1251 Avenue of the Americas, 12th Floor,
New York, New York 10020-1104, Attention: Ms. Mary Coseo, Portfolio Management Group, Telephone:
(212) 782-6932, Telecopier:  (212) 782-6440, and Mr. Henry Clivilles, Loan Transaction
Department, Telephone: (212) 782-4315,
Telecopier:  (212) 782-6441.  Except as otherwise expressly set forth
herein, all Notices shall be effective as against the Bank only upon the
receipt thereof. 

  (c)           No modification or waiver
of any provision of this Agreement, or any other instrument or agreement
required hereunder, and no consent to any departure by the Borrowers therefrom,
shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed
by the parties hereto, and then in each such event such waiver or consent shall
be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which
given.  No notice to or demand on the
Borrowers in any case shall, of itself, entitle the Borrowers to any other or
further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.  

  (d)           The terms and
provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and the benefits thereof
shall inure to, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns;
 provided,    however,  that  any Borrower shall not assign any interest in
this Agreement or any of 

the Borrower s rights, duties, or obligations hereunder or thereunder
without the prior written consent of the Bank.  

  (e)           No delay or omission
to exercise any right, power, or remedy accruing to the Bank upon any breach or
default of  any Borrower under this Agreement or any instrument or agreement required
hereunder shall impair any such right, power, or remedy of the Bank, nor shall
it be considered to be a waiver of any such breach or default, or an
acquiescence therein, or of or in any similar breach or default thereafter
occurring; and no waiver by the Bank of any single breach or default shall be
deemed a waiver of any other breach or default theretofore and thereafter
occurring.  Any waiver, permit, consent,
or approval of any kind or character on the part of the Bank of any breach or
default under this Agreement or any waiver on the part of the Bank of any
provision or condition of this Agreement must be in writing specifically set forth.  No remedy herein conferred upon the Bank is
intended to be exclusive of any other remedy and each and every such remedy
either under this Agreement or by law or otherwise afforded to the Bank, shall
be cumulative and not alternative and shall be in addition to every other
remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by
statute or otherwise. 

  (f)            Nothing in this
Agreement shall be deemed a waiver or prohibition of the Bank s rights of
banker s lien or setoff.  

  (g)           This Agreement may
be executed in any number of counterparts and on separate counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed to be an original and but all of which taken together
shall constitute one and the same Agreement.  

   (h)           The Bank may assign,
pledge or otherwise transfer any or all of its interests, rights, and/or
obligations in, or arising under this Agreement, the Commitment, the Loans and
may grant or assign to any person in this Agreement, the Commitment, the Loans 
 with consent from the Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld;
provided that no such consent is required if (i) an Event of Default exists and is
continuing; or (ii) such assignment is to an Affiliate of the Bank with the
financial capability and wherewithal to carry out the obligations of the Bank
hereunder.    Notwithstanding any other provision in this
Agreement, the Bank may at any time create a security interest in, or pledge,
all or any portion of its rights under and interest in this Agreement and any
Term Loan Note held by it in favor of any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance
with Regulation A of the FRB or U.S. Treasury Regulation 31 CFR  203.14, and
such Federal Reserve Bank may enforce such security interest or pledge in any
manner permitted under applicable law. 

  (i)            Unless otherwise
specified herein, all accounting determinations hereunder and all computations
utilized by the Borrowers in complying with terms used herein shall be
interpreted, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder
shall be prepared, in accordance with the accounting principles set forth in
the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and
pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.  

(j)            The
Bank hereby notifies  the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA
Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001))
(the  Act ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that
identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of
the Borrowers and other information that will allow the Bank to identify the
Borrowers in accordance with the Act. 

  (k)             The term  Borrowers  as used in this
Agreement shall, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, mean the  Borrowers
and each of them  and each undertaking and obligation of the Borrowers
contained in this Agreement and any other loan documents to which both of the
Borrowers are parties shall be their joint and several undertakings and
obligations. The Bank may proceed under this Agreement or any other loan
documents against either or both of the Borrowers at one time or from time to
time, in the sole discretion of the Bank.  

  [No further
text appears on this page]  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , each Borrower and the Bank, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Credit Agreement to be duly
executed in duplicate counterparts in the English language and signed in their
respective names the day and year first above written. 

NEW JERSEY RESOURCES CORPORATION   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

NJR ENERGY SERVICES COMPANY   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ TRUST 
  COMPANY   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

</EX-4.5>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 a06-23841_1ex21d1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT 21.1   

  NEW JERSEY RESOURCES CORPORATION  

  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE
REGISTRANT  

SUBSIDIARY   

STATE OF INCORPORATION   

New Jersey Natural Gas Company  

New Jersey  

NJR Service Corporation  

New Jersey  

NJR Energy Services Company  

New Jersey  

Subsidiaries:  

NJR Storage
  Partners (Limited Partnership)  

New Jersey  

NJR Capital Services Corporation (f/k/a NJR
  Development Corp.)  

New Jersey  

Subsidiaries:  

Commercial
  Realty   Resources Corp.  

New Jersey  

NJR Energy
  Holdings Corporation  

New Jersey  

Subsidiary:  

NJR Energy Corp.  

New Jersey  

Subsidiaries:  

NJNR Pipeline
  Company  

New Jersey  

NJR Pipeline
  Company  

New Jersey  

NJR Investment
  Company  

New Jersey  

NJR Retail Holdings Corporation  

New Jersey  

Subsidiaries:  

NJR Home
  Services Company  

New Jersey  

NJR Plumbing
  Services, Inc.  

New Jersey  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 a06-23841_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit
23.1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-52409, 333-59013,
333-38808 and 333-133453 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 33-57711
and 333-137320 on Form S-3 of our reports dated November 22, 2006,
relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of New
Jersey Resources Corporation (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and
includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of Financial
Accounting Standards Board interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations), and relating to management s report on the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of New Jersey Resources Corporation for the year
ended September 30, 2006.  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-23841_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, Laurence M. Downes,
certify that:  

  1)                  I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of New Jersey Resources
Corporation;  

  2)                  Based
on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this Annual Report;  

  3)                  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this Annual Report;  

  4)                  The
Registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-f15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the Registrant
and have:  

  a.)                           designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this Annual Report is being prepared;  

  b.)                          designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

  c.)                           evaluated
the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
Annual Report based on such evaluation;  

  d.)                          disclosed
in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting   that occurred during the
Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or
is  reasonably likely to adversely affect,
the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5)                  The
Registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

  a.)                           all
significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and  

  b.)                          any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

Date: November 22, 2006 

By:  

/s/ Laurence M. Downes  

Laurence M.
  Downes  

Chairman  
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-23841_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

   CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, Glenn C. Lockwood,
certify that:  

  1)                  I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of New Jersey Resources
Corporation;  

  2)                  Based
on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this Annual Report;  

  3)                  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this Annual Report;  

  4)                  The
Registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-f15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the Registrant
and have:  

  a.)                           designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this Annual Report is being prepared;  

  b.)                          designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

  c.)                           evaluated
the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
Annual Report based on such evaluation;  

  d.)                          disclosed
in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting   that occurred during the
Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or
is  reasonably likely to adversely
affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5)                  The
Registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

  a.)                           all
significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and  

  b.)                          any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

Date: November 22, 2006 

By:  

/s/ Glenn C. Lockwood  

Glenn C.
  Lockwood  

Senior Vice President, 
  Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a06-23841_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

   CERTIFICATION
OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  The undersigned,
Laurence M. Downes hereby certifies as follows:  

  (a)                                     I
am the Chief Executive Officer of New Jersey Resources Corporation (the  Company  

  (b)                                    To
the best of my knowledge, the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended September 30, 2006 (the  Report ) complies in all material respects with
the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended; and 

  (c)                                     To
the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the Report, the information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

NEW JERSEY RESOURCES CORPORATION   

Date: November 22,
  2006  

By:  

/s/ Laurence M. Downes  

Laurence M. Downes  

Chairman   Chief Executive Officer  

This certificate
accompanies this Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 or
any other provision of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and
will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a06-23841_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.2   

   CERTIFICATION
OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  The undersigned,
Glenn C. Lockwood hereby certifies as follows:  

  (a)                                     I
am the Chief Financial Officer of New Jersey Resources Corporation (the  Company  

  (b)                                    To
the best of my knowledge, the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended September 30, 2006 (the  Report ) complies in all material respects with
the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended; and 

  (c)                                     To
the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the Report, the information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

NEW JERSEY RESOURCES CORPORATION   

Date: November 22,
  2006  

By:  

/s/ Glenn C. Lockwood  

Glenn C. Lockwood  

Senior Vice President,  

Chief Financial Officer  

This certificate
accompanies this Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 or
any other provision of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and
will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

