<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061004_10-K_edgar_data_28866_0001104659-06-064913_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2090483</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>214234</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9489</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1250710</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>56</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-064913.hdr.sgml : 20061004
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061004170811
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-064913
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061004
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061004

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VERITAS DGC INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000028866
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL AND GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES [1382]
		IRS NUMBER:				760343152
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07427
		FILM NUMBER:		061129043

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10300 TOWN PARK DR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77072
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7135128300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10300 TOWN PARK DR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77072

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DIGICON INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RE6x6N9CRr9wfq5o9xlytKG82vEsnqQYII26sC8KqoQWqUWQ5bVpSKHOszjq601V
 VVsuQV2iN8Iqkp8OVwj8oQ==

 0001104659-06-064913.txt : 20061004

10-K
 1
 a06-20684_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

Form 10-K   

Veritas DGC Inc.   

  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

(832) 351-8300   

  (Registrant s telephone number,
including area code)  

  Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class   

Name of Each Exchange on
  Which Registered   

Common Stock, $.01 par value  

New York Stock Exchange  

Preferred Stock Purchase
  Rights  

New York Stock Exchange  

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.  

  Yes   x   No  o  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  

  Yes   o   No  x  

  Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.  Yes   x   No  o  

  Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.    o  

  Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer.  See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  

  Large accelerated filer   x     Accelerated
filer  o                               Non-accelerated
filer  o  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes   o   No  x  

  The aggregate market
value of the registrant s voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
was $1,589 million as of January 31, 2006.  

  The number of
shares of the Company s common stock, $.01 par value, outstanding at August 31,
2006 was 36,058,583.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

  Portions of the
registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed in connection with the
registrant s 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this annual report.  

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

   FORM 10-K   

PART I   

ITEM 1. Business   

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors   

ITEM 1B.
  Unresolved Staff Comments   

ITEM 2. Properties   

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings   

ITEM 4.
  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

PART II   

ITEM 5. Market
  for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities   

ITEM 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data   

ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
  Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
  Regarding Market Risk   

ITEM 8.
  Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

ITEM 9.
  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

ITEM 9A. Controls
  and Procedures   

ITEM 9B. Other
  Information   

PART III   

ITEM 10.
  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

ITEM 11. Executive
  Compensation   

ITEM 12.
  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
  Stockholder Matters   

ITEM 13.
  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

ITEM 14.
  Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

PART IV   

ITEM 15.
  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

SIGNATURES   

This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include,
among other things, business strategy and expectations concerning industry
conditions, market position, future operations, margins, profitability,
liquidity and capital resources. Forward-looking statements generally can be
identified by the use of terminology such as  may,   will,   expect,   intend, 
 estimate,   anticipate  or  believe  or similar expressions or the negatives
thereof. These expectations are based on management s assumptions and current
beliefs based on currently available information. Although we believe that the
expectations reflected in such statements are reasonable, we can give no
assurance that such expectations will be correct. You are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as
of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our operations are subject to a
number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are outside
our control, and any one of which, or a combination of which, could cause our
actual results of operations to differ materially from the forward-looking
statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from our expectations are disclosed in Item 1.  Business  and Item
7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Risk Factors  and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.   

   PART I     

   ITEM
1. Business     

   Merger
Agreement   

  On September 4, 2006, we
entered into a merger agreement with Compagnie G n rale de G ophysique, a
soci t  anonyme organized under the laws of the Republic of France ( CGG ),
whereby CGG agreed to acquire Veritas in a part cash, part stock
transaction.  The transaction is
currently expected to close around the end of calendar year 2006.  See further discussion on the proposed merger
in Note 15, Subsequent Events, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   General   

  Veritas is a leading
provider of integrated geophysical information and services to the petroleum
industry worldwide. Our customers include major, national and independent oil
and gas companies that utilize geophysical technologies to:  

                 identify new subsurface areas favorable for the
production of hydrocarbons; 

                 determine the size, structure and stratigraphy of
previously identified oil and gas fields; and 

        optimize
development and production of hydrocarbon reserves. 

  We acquire, process,
interpret and market geophysical information that provides 2D and 3D images of
the subsurface. We also produce 4D surveys, which record fluid movement in the
reservoir by repeating specific 3D surveys over time. Additionally, we use
geophysical data for reservoir characterization to enable our customers to
maximize their recovery of oil and natural gas.  

   Services
and Markets   

  We conduct geophysical
surveys on both a contract and a multi-client basis. When we conduct surveys on
a contract basis, we acquire and process data for a single client who pays us
to conduct the survey and owns the data we acquire. When we conduct surveys on
a multi-client basis, we acquire and process data for our own account and license
that data and associated products to multiple clients.     The high cost of acquiring and processing
geophysical data on an exclusive basis has prompted many oil and gas companies
to license surveys on a multi-client basis. In response to this demand, we have
built a large library of surveys consisting of approximately 200,000 line
kilometers of 2D data and 210,000 square kilometers of 3D data. Our marine data
library includes surveys in the Gulf of Mexico, the North Sea, Southeast Asia,
West Africa, North Africa, Canada and Brazil. Our land data library includes
surveys in Texas, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Wyoming and Utah in the United States
as well as Alberta and British Columbia in Canada. The portion of our revenue
generated from the sale of multi-client data licenses is influenced by a number
of factors, including government licensing of exploration and production rights
and as a result, will fluctuate from year to year.  

1     

The following tables
describe our revenue by contract type and geographic area based on the location
of the product or service provided:  

In fiscal 2006, 2005 and
2004, 58%, 55% and 57%, respectively, of our revenue was attributable to
non-U.S. operations and export sales. (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional geographic and segment information.)  

   Principal
Operating Assets   

  We acquire, process,
interpret and sell geophysical information utilizing a wide array of assets as
follows:  

    Land Acquisition    

  Our land acquisition
activities are performed with technologically advanced geophysical equipment.
As of July 31, 2006, our land survey equipment had a combined recording
capacity of approximately 52,000 channels. We typically deploy equipment in
North and South America and Oman by crews of varying size. Our crew count
varies widely as land acquisition is a seasonal activity in many markets,
primarily due to weather.  

  Our land operations
include surveying crews, which lay out the lines to be recorded and mark the
sites for shot-hole placement or equipment location, and recording crews, which
use explosive or mechanical vibrating units to produce acoustic impulses and use
recording units to synchronize the shooting and capture of the seismic signals
via geophones. On a land survey where explosives are used, the recording crew
is supported by several drill crews, which are typically furnished by third
parties under short-term contracts. Drill crews operate in advance of the
recording crew and bore shallow holes for explosive charges which, when
detonated by the recording crew, produce the necessary acoustic impulse.  

    Marine Acquisition    

  Our marine acquisition
crews operate from chartered vessels that have been modified or equipped to our
specifications. All of the vessels we utilize are equipped to perform both 2D
and 3D geophysical surveys. During the last several years, the majority of the
marine geophysical data acquisition services we performed involved 3D surveys.
The following table contains certain information concerning the geophysical
vessels we operated as of July 31, 2006.  

(1) See the following
discussions related to various changes in the status of the charters and the
vessels subsequent to July 31, 2006.  

2     

The Veritas Searcher was
sold in August 2006.  During July 2006,
we chartered the Veritas Voyager to replace the Veritas Searcher.  As of July 31, 2006, the Veritas Searcher was
classified in the balance sheet as an asset held for sale.  

  Each vessel is equipped
with geophysical recording instrumentation, digital geophysical streamer cable,
cable location and geophysical data location systems, multiple navigation
systems, and a source control system that controls the synchronization of the
energy source and a firing system that generates the acoustic impulses.
Streamer cables contain hydrophones that receive the acoustic impulses
reflected by variations in the subsurface strata.  

  At present, five of our
vessels are equipped with multiple streamers and multiple energy sources. These
vessels acquire more lines of data with each pass, which reduces completion
time and the acquisition cost. The Veritas Viking, Veritas Viking II and the
Veritas Vantage are each capable of deploying 12 streamers simultaneously,
although each is currently equipped to tow eight. The Veritas Viking, Veritas
Viking II, Veritas Vantage and Veritas Voyager are equipped with solid
streamers that offer numerous advantages over fluid-filled streamers. The solid
streamers allow these vessels to work in rougher seas and record more desirable
frequencies with less noise and less downtime than is possible with
fluid-filled streamers.  

  In March 2006, we entered
into an agreement with a third party ship owner to charter a vessel currently
known as the Veritas Vision, which is currently being converted for seismic
operations.  The term of the charter is for a period of eight years fixed,
with options of up to 10 more years.  When delivered in the first calendar
quarter of 2007, the Veritas Vision will be the seventh seismic vessel in our
fleet.  

  In September 2006, we
entered into an agreement to charter a seismic vessel, currently known as the
Viking Poseidon, which is currently expected to be in service commencing in the
second calendar quarter of 2007.  This
vessel will serve as a replacement for the Seisquest vessel, which is under a
charter that expires in May of 2007.  

  Subsequent to July 31,
2006, we renewed our charter agreement to extend the charter expiration related
to the Pacific Sword from October 2006 to October 2009.  

    Data Processing and Interpretation    

  We
operate several data processing centers capable of processing 2D and 3D data.
Most of our data processing services are performed on 3D seismic data. The
centers process data received from the field, both from our own crews and from
other geophysical companies, to produce an image of the earth s subsurface
using proprietary computer software and techniques. We also reprocess older
geophysical data using new techniques designed to enhance the quality of the
data. Our first data processing center opened in 1966, and we now have centers
in all of our geographic locations.  

  Our processing centers
operate high capacity, advanced technology data processing systems on
high-speed cluster CPUs. These systems run our proprietary data processing
software. The marine and land data acquisition crews have software compatible
with that utilized in the processing centers, allowing for ease in the movement
of data from the field to the data processing centers. Our centers can
generally process both land and marine data and we tailor the equipment and
software deployed in an area to meet the local market demands.  

  We operate visualization
centers in Houston, Calgary, Perth, and Crawley. These four centers allow teams
of our customers  geoscientists and engineers to view and interpret large
volumes of complex 3D data. The visualization centers have imaging tools used
for advanced interpretive techniques that enhance the understanding of regional
as well as detailed reservoir geology. These visualization centers allow us to
offer our expertise combined with the type of collaborative geophysical model
building that is enabling oil companies to explore areas of complex geology
such as the large sub-salt plays in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.  

  We have groups of
scientists available to perform advanced geophysical and geological
interpretation on a contract basis. These experts work around the world, using
third party and our proprietary software to create subsurface models for our
clients and advise our clients on how best to exploit their reservoirs. Their
work is related to exploration as well as production activities. Additionally,
we license our proprietary Hampson-Russell software to companies desiring to do
their own geophysical interpretation.  

3     

Technology
and Capital Expenditures   

  The geophysical industry
is highly technical, and the requirements for the acquisition and processing of
geophysical data have evolved continuously during the past 50 years.
Accordingly, it is critical that our technological capabilities are comparable
or superior to those of our competitors. We maintain our technological
capabilities through continuing research and development, strategic alliances
with equipment manufacturers, and by acquiring technology from others.  

  Our research and
development staff includes scientists, engineers or programmers. Our research
and development efforts focus on new acquisition technologies and processes and
on our core processing and imaging software. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
research and development expenditures were $22.9 million, $18.9 million and
$15.5 million, respectively.  

  During fiscal 2006, 2005,
and 2004, capital expenditures for equipment were $67.9 million, $62.4 million
and $30.5 million, respectively. We expect to increase substantially our
investment in capital equipment during fiscal 2007 to approximately $200 to
$240 million. Our 2007 capital budget includes amounts for replacement and
upgrading of our existing equipment and amounts for equipping a new vessel that
is expected to be in place during the first calendar quarter of 2007.  

  During fiscal 2006, 2005
and 2004, our cash multi-client investment, net of capitalized depreciation,
was $165.6 million, $148.4 million and $126.3 million, respectively. For fiscal
2007, we are planning to substantially increase our cash investment in
multi-client data to approximately $250 to $300 million.  

   Competition   

  The acquisition and
processing of geophysical data for the oil and gas industry has historically
been highly competitive worldwide. Success in marketing geophysical services is
based on several factors, including price, crew experience, equipment
availability, technological expertise, reputation for quality and
dependability, safety record and, in the case of multi-client surveys,
availability of surveys in the area of current customer interest.  

  Our largest global
competitors are Western-Geco (a division of Schlumberger), CGG and Petroleum
Geo-Services ASA. Additionally, there are a large number of seismic companies,
mostly small and local, in the land acquisition and land data processing areas
where financial and technical barriers to entry are minimal. In the
multi-client library business, we compete with the full-service seismic
companies mentioned above, as well as with specialty library companies such as
TGS Nopec Geophysical Company ASA and Seitel Inc.  On September 5, 2006, we announced that we
entered into a merger agreement with CGG whereby CGG will acquire Veritas in a
part cash, part stock transaction.  See
further discussion on the proposed merger in Note 15, Subsequent Events, of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  We compete to a lesser
degree with large, state-affiliated companies, such as BGP of China. These
companies are large providers of seismic services in their home countries and
have recently been expanding their operations to include other parts of the
world. They are particularly aggressive in price sensitive markets, such as
those involving large tenders to national oil companies, where low price is of
paramount importance.  

  Due to the constantly
changing configurations of seismic crews and the immense numbers of channels in
the market, it is impossible to discuss the global competition in land
acquisition in any quantitative fashion. Tracking our competition is more
feasible in the marine acquisition market. According to a September 15, 2005
report by Enskilda Securities, a third party industry analyst, there are a
total of 60 towed-streamer vessels working in the world, including 44 3D
vessels and 16 2D vessels. In fiscal 2005 and 2006, there were temporary and
local shortages of vessels of specific capability, which allowed us to increase
seismic acquisition margins in certain regions.  

   Backlog   

  At July 31, 2006, our
backlog of commitments for future revenue was $456.4 million, compared with
$301.8 million at July 31, 2005.  We
expect that approximately 90% of our July 31, 2006 backlog will be completed
during the next twelve months. This backlog consists of written orders or firm
commitments. Contracts for services are subject to modification by mutual
consent and in certain instances are cancelable by the customer on short notice
without penalty. As a result of these factors, our backlog as of any particular
date may not be indicative of our actual operating results for any succeeding
period.  

4     

Significant
Customers   

  Our customers include
international oil and gas companies, national oil companies and independent oil
and gas companies. In fiscal 2006, no customer accounted for 10% or more of our
total revenue. A single, large multi-national oil company represented 12% of
our revenue in fiscal 2005.  In fiscal
2004, no customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue.  

   Employees   

  During fiscal 2006, we
employed an average of approximately 2,800 people on a full-time basis. Our
number of employees varies greatly due to activity changes in our land
acquisition business and during fiscal 2006 ranged from a low of approximately
2,400 to a high of approximately 4,300. This variation typically occurs on a
seasonal basis, with higher employee counts and higher revenue occurring during
our second and third fiscal quarters, coinciding with the winter seismic
acquisition seasons in Alaska and Canada. However, performance of large land
surveys in South America or other locales can cause a marked shift from this
pattern. A total of 31 employees in Singapore are subject to collective
bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.  

   Our
SEC Reporting   

  We electronically file
certain documents with the SEC. We file annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K (as appropriate) and proxy
statements; along with any related amendments and supplements thereto. From
time-to-time, we may also file registration statements pertaining to equity or
debt offerings. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the
SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC
20549. You may obtain information regarding the Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet
website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC.  

  We provide electronic
access to our periodic and current reports on our internet website, www.veritasdgc.com.
These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such materials with the SEC. You may also contact
our investor relations department at 832-351-8821 for paper copies of these
reports free of charge.  

   ITEM
1A. Risk Factors     

    Our recently announced merger
agreement with CGG may cause uncertainties among our customers.    

    Some customers may be hesitant to contract for our services
in light of uncertainties about our ability to perform due to our recently
announced plan to merge with CGG or may prefer not to do business with us
following the completion of the merger. 
If we are unable to reassure our customers to continue utilizing our
services, our financial results may be adversely affected.    

    In the event our recently announced
plan to merge with CGG is not consummated, our ability to carry on our business
at current levels may be affected.    

    Closing of our current agreement to merge with CGG is
contingent upon a number of items, including, among other things, approval of
the merger by an affirmative vote of a majority of our shareholders and
approval of the issuance of CGG shares in the merger by the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of CGG s shareholders, as well as the receipt of necessary
regulatory approvals from several agencies in several countries.  There can be no assurance that all such
approvals will be obtained, and, in the event any approval required under the
merger agreement as a condition to closing is not obtained, the merger may not
be consummated.  If the merger is not
consummated, we may have difficulty retaining and recruiting employees in vital
areas and we may have difficulty retaining current customers or attracting new
customers.    

    In the event our recently announced
plan to merge with CGG is not consummated, the price of our stock may be
affected.    

  Our closing stock price
was $57.27 on July 31, 2006 and closed at $70.07 on September 5, 2006, after
announcement of the merger. The increase in the stock price is primarily due to
the premium to be paid related to the merger. 
In the event our previously announced merger with CGG is not consummated,
the price of our common shares may be adversely affected because  

5     

the stockholders
will not receive the premium contemplated by the merger agreement.  

   As a provider of geophysical technologies, our business is
substantially dependent on the level of exploration expenditures by oil and gas
companies.   

  Exploration expenditures
by oil and gas companies are affected by several factors, including actual and
forecasted petroleum commodity prices and such companies  own short term and
strategic plans. These expenditures may also be affected by worldwide economic
conditions. Should there be a sustained period of substantially reduced
exploration expenditures by oil and gas companies, the demand for geophysical
services likely will drop and have an adverse effect on our results of
operations and cash flow during the affected period. In recent years, many of
our customers had been using a substantial portion of their discretionary cash
to pay down debt, buy back their stock, drill low-risk prospects and maximize production
from existing fields rather than exploring for new prospects. While we believe
this trend has ended, due to recent commodity price increases and current
supply and demand forecasts, there can be no guarantee that oil and gas
companies will engage in substantial or prolonged exploration programs
involving seismic spending. While petroleum commodity prices are currently high
from a historical perspective, history has shown these prices to be very
volatile.  

   Weak demand or technological obsolescence could impair the value of our
multi-client data library.   

  We have invested
significant amounts in acquiring and processing multi-client data and expect to
continue to do so for the foreseeable future. There is no assurance that we
will recover all the costs of such surveys. Technological, regulatory or other
industry or general economic developments could render all or portions of our
multi-client data library obsolete or reduce its value. For example, in fiscal
2003 and fiscal 2002 we incurred $4.9 million and $55.3 million, respectively,
in impairment charges related to slow moving surveys in our multi-client
library. These surveys were found to be impaired for various reasons, including
slow acreage turnover in the case of U.S. land surveys, a border dispute in the
case of a Shetland-Faroes survey and excessive acquisition cost in the case of
a Gulf of Mexico survey. Additionally, our individual surveys have a book life
of five years, so particular surveys may be subject to significant amortization
even though sales of licenses associated with that survey are weak or
non-existent, thus reducing our profits.  

   We
are dependent on achieving and maintaining technological advances, which
creates risks regarding technological obsolescence, requirements for substantial
future capital expenditures, the unavailability of necessary technology and the
failure of new technologies.   

  The development of
geophysical data acquisition and processing equipment has been characterized by
rapid technological advancements in recent years. We expect this trend to
continue. We will be required to invest substantial capital in the future to
maintain our technology. Furthermore, manufacturers of geophysical equipment
may develop new systems that render our equipment, even if recently acquired,
obsolete or less desirable, requiring significant additional capital
expenditures. Because some of our competitors are themselves leading designers
and manufacturers of seismic equipment, we may not have access to their
technology. Even if critical new and advanced equipment is available to us, we
may not have funds available or be able to obtain necessary financing on
acceptable terms to acquire it. Further, any investment we may make in a
perceived technological advance may not be effective, economically successful
or otherwise accepted in the market.  

   We face intense competition in our industry, which could
adversely affect our results.   

  Competition among
geophysical service providers historically has been, and we expect will
continue to be, intense. Competitive factors in recent years have included
price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and
reputation for quality, safety and dependability. Some of our competitors
operate substantially more data acquisition crews and have significantly
greater financial and other resources than we do. These larger and
better-financed operators could enjoy an advantage over us in a competitive
environment for contract awards and data sales and in the development of new
technologies. Other competitors operate with extremely low overhead and compete
vigorously on price in certain markets where that is the determining factor in
awarding work. These low-cost competitors can have a competitive advantage over
us in these markets.  

   High
fixed costs could result in operating losses.   

  Our business has high
fixed costs. As a result, downtime or low productivity due to reduced demand,
weather interruptions, equipment failures or other causes can result in
significant operating losses. Low utilization rates may hamper our ability to
recover the cost of necessary capital investments.  

6     

Our revenue is subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control,
which could adversely affect our results of operations in any financial period.   

  Our operating results
vary in material respects from quarter to quarter and will most likely continue
to do so in the future. Factors that cause variations include the timing of the
receipt and commencement of contracts for data acquisition, customers 
budgetary cycles, the timing of offshore lease sales and the effect of such
timing on the demand for geophysical activities, seasonal factors and the
timing of sales of licenses to geophysical data in our multi-client data
library, which may be significant to us and which are not typically made in a
linear or consistent pattern. Combined with our high fixed costs, these revenue
fluctuations could produce unexpected adverse results of operations in any
fiscal period.  

   We may be unable to attract and retain key employees, which could adversely
affect our business.   

  Our success depends upon
attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals and technical personnel.
A number of our employees are highly skilled scientists and highly trained
technicians, and our failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals
could adversely affect our ability to compete in the geophysical services
industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for
key personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for geophysical
services and possible uncertainties caused by our recently announced plan to
merge with CGG. In addition, our success will depend to a significant extent
upon the abilities and efforts of members of our senior management, the loss of
whom could adversely affect our business.  

    We face risks associated with our foreign revenue
generating activities.    

  Substantial
portions of our revenue are derived from foreign activities. During the fiscal
years ended July 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 57% and 53% of our revenue,
respectively, was attributable to activities outside the United States. During
the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006 and 2005, we recognized revenue from
customers residing in the following foreign countries that represented more
than 1% of our consolidated revenue on a gross basis for that fiscal year:  

Foreign revenue is
subject to certain risks, including those related to rates of currency
exchange, border disputes, war, terrorism, civil disturbances, embargo, and
government activities such as radical changes in tax regulations or investment
laws. We are exposed to these risks in all of our foreign operations to some
degree, and our exposure could be material to our financial condition and
results of operations where the political and legal environment is less stable
and we generate significant revenue or have large local investments, such as in
Brazil, Nigeria, and Oman.  

  Revenue generating
activities in certain foreign countries may require prior United States
government approval in the form of an export license and otherwise be subject
to tariffs and import/export restrictions. These laws change over time and may
result in limitations on our ability to compete globally. In addition, non-U.S.
persons employed by our separately incorporated foreign subsidiaries conduct
business in foreign jurisdictions, some of which have been subject to U.S. trade
embargoes and have been identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of
terrorism or are subject to sanctions by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets  

7     

Control. For
example, during fiscal 2006 we generated $5.4 million of revenue from Libyan
customers (Libya was identified by the U.S. government as a state sponsor of
terrorism until September 2004), $0.7 million of revenue from Iranian customers
and $7 thousand of revenue from a Syrian customer. We have typically generated
revenue in these countries through the performance of data processing,
reservoir consulting services and the sale of software licenses and software
maintenance. The governments of Iran and Syria have been identified by the U.S.
government as state sponsors of terrorism and are subject to sanctions by the
U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and either directly or indirectly control
the activities of our customers within their borders. Our relations with
customers in these countries are current and on going. We have procedures in
place to conduct these operations in compliance with applicable U.S. laws.
However, failure to comply with U.S. laws on foreign operations could result in
material fines and penalties, damage to our reputation, and a reduction in the
value of our shares of common stock. In addition, our activities in these
countries could reduce demand for our stock among certain investors.  

  Finally, some of our
operational activities result in accounts receivable or accounts payable that
are denominated in foreign currencies and, therefore, subject to fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates. There can be no assurance that we will not
experience difficulties in connection with future foreign revenue generation
and, in particular, adverse effects from foreign currency fluctuations.  

   We
operate under hazardous conditions that subject us to risk of damage to
property or personal injuries and may interrupt our business.   

  Our seismic data
acquisition activities involve operating under extreme weather and other
hazardous conditions. These operations are subject to risks of loss to property
and injury to personnel from fires, accidental explosions, ice floes, and high
seas. These types of events could result in an interruption of our business or
significant liability. We may not obtain insurance against all risks or for
certain equipment located from time to time in certain areas of the world.  

   The trading price of our securities could be subject to significant
fluctuations.   

  The trading prices of our
securities fluctuate. Factors such as fluctuations in our financial
performance, and that of our competitors, as well as general market conditions
could have a significant impact on the future trading prices of our securities.
The trading prices also may be affected by weakness in oil prices, changes in
interest rates and other factors beyond our control. Any one or combination of
these factors may cause a decline in the trading price of our securities.  

   We may be unable to repurchase
our Convertible Senior Notes as may be required upon a change in control or on
the specified dates at the option of the holder or to pay the required cash
upon conversion of the notes.   

  Upon a change in
control, as defined in the indenture governing our Convertible Senior Notes,
and on March 15, 2009, 2014 and 2019, the holders of the notes have the right
to require us to repurchase the notes for cash. In addition, upon conversion of
the notes, the holders will have the right to receive a cash payment. If we do
not have sufficient funds to pay the repurchase price for all of the notes
tendered upon a change in control, the cash due upon repurchases of the notes
on March 15, 2009, 2014 or 2019 or the cash due upon conversion, an event of
default under the indenture governing the notes would occur as a result of such
failure. In addition, cash payments in respect of notes tendered for repurchase
or conversion are subject to limits and might be prohibited, or create an event
of default, under our Credit Facility as well as other agreements relating to
borrowings that we may enter into from time to time. Our failure to make cash
payments in respect of the Convertible Senior Notes could result in an event of
default under our Credit Facility. There can be no guarantee that our available
sources of cash will be sufficient to allow us to make the required cash
payments.  

   Our
business is subject to governmental regulation, which may adversely affect our
future operations or the accounting thereof.   

  Our operations are
subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state, foreign and local laws and
regulations, including environmental laws. We invest financial and managerial
resources to comply with these laws and related permit requirements. Failure to
timely obtain the required permits may result in crew downtime and operating
losses. Because laws and regulations change frequently, we cannot predict the
impact of government regulations on our future operations. The adoption of laws
and regulations that have the effect of curtailing exploration by oil and gas
companies could also adversely affect our operations by reducing the demand for
our geophysical services.  

8     

We follow the generally
accepted accounting principles of the United States (GAAP) as promulgated
and/or enforced by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and other organizations. GAAP is subject to change, with
such changes occurring at a rapid rate in recent years. Changes in GAAP can
affect the reporting of our future results.  

   Cer    tain provisions of our charter, Delaware law and our shareholder rights
plan may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even in situations
that may be viewed as desirable by our stockholders.   

  The General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware contains provisions that may delay or prevent an
attempt by a third party to acquire control of our company. Our certificate of
incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that authorize the issuance of
preferred stock, and establish advance notice requirements for director
nominations and actions to be taken at stockholder meetings. These provisions
could also discourage or impede a tender offer, proxy contest or other similar
transaction involving control of us, even if viewed favorably by stockholders.
In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that would likely
discourage a hostile attempt to acquire control of us.  In September 2006, we amended our shareholder
rights plan to provide that no rights will be issued to our current
shareholders in connection with our previously announced plan to merge with
CGG.  

    The amounts we amortize from our data library each
period may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations can have a
significant effect on our reported results of operations.    

    How we
account for our multi-client data library has a significant effect on our
reported results of operations. We amortize the cost of our multi-client
library based primarily upon our estimates of future sales of licenses to data,
known as the sales forecast method. Although we also employ a minimum
amortization for each survey in our data library based on straight-line
amortization over five years, this amortization is secondary to that derived
from the sales forecast method. The estimates used in the sales forecast method
are inherently imprecise and may vary from period to period depending upon
market developments and our expectations. We update our estimates on a
quarterly basis and change our amortization rates accordingly. Substantial
changes in amortization rates can have a significant effect on our reported results
of operations.    

   We have the ability to issue additional equity
securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common
stock.   

          The
issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity
securities would result in dilution of then existing stockholders  equity
interests in us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, without
vote or action of stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in
one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences,
privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred
stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of
redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior
to the rights of holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has no
present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right
to do so in the future. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without
stockholder approval, up to 78,500,000 shares of common stock, of which
approximately 35,871,367 shares were outstanding as of July 31, 2006.  

   ITEM
1B. Unresolved Staff Comments     

  Not applicable.  

   ITEM
2. Properties     

  Our headquarters is
located in Houston, Texas in a 218,151 square foot office and warehouse
complex, which is leased. The complex houses data processing operations, as
well as executive, accounting, research and development and operating
personnel. This lease expires in the beginning of fiscal 2016. We lease additional
space, aggregating approximately 660,000 square feet, which is used by our
operations around the world, including the locations identified under Item 1.
Business Principal Operating Assets Data Processing and Interpretation. These
leases expire at various times through fiscal 2015. We also own and charter
seismic acquisition vessels as listed under Item 1. Business Principal
Operating Assets Marine Acquisition.  

9  

ITEM
3. Legal Proceedings     

  On occasion, we are named
as a defendant in litigation relating to our normal business operations.
Although we are insured against various business risks to the extent we believe
prudent, there is no assurance that the nature and amount of such insurance
will be adequate in every case. As of September 30, 2006, we were not a party
to any legal proceeding that we believed to be material.  

   ITEM 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders     

  None.  

   PART II     

   ITEM
5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity  
Securities   

   Market
Price of and Dividends on the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters   

  Our common stock is
listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  VTS.  The following
table sets forth the high and low daily closing sales prices for our common
stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange for the fiscal periods shown.  

On August 31, 2006, there
were approximately 168 record holders of common stock.  

  We have not paid any
dividends on our common stock during the two most recent fiscal years and have
no current plans to pay any dividends. The payment of any future dividends on
our common stock would depend upon our financial condition and upon a
determination by our Board of Directors that the payment of dividends would be
desirable. In addition, our current Credit Facility limits the amount of cash
dividends.  

  On June 1, 2005, a former
employee purchased 7,650 shares of our common stock for an aggregate exercise
price of $78,284 pursuant to the exercise of outstanding options that had been
granted under our stock option plans. The issuance of the shares was exempt
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 by reason of
the exemption provided by section 4(2) of such statute for private sales of
securities. In connection with his purchase, the former employee represented
that he was acquiring the shares for investment and not with a view to a
distribution thereof. The certificates representing the shares purchased
contain a legend to the effect that sale of the shares was not registered under
the Securities Act of 1933 and the shares may not be transferred except
pursuant to an effective registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or
pursuant to an exemption from such registration requirements. The sale did not
involve any underwriters.  

   Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans   

  Information related to
our equity compensation plans as of July 31, 2006 may be found under  Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans  in Item 12.  

10     

Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers   

  The following table summarizes
issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006:  

(1)     During the quarter
ended July 31, 2006, we repurchased an aggregate of 396 shares other than as a
part of a publicly announced plan or program. We repurchased these securities
in connection with our stock compensation plans, which allow participants to
use shares to satisfy tax liabilities arising from the vesting of restricted
stock. The number above does not include unvested shares forfeited back to us
for no consideration pursuant to the terms of our stock compensation plans. 

  (2)      As
of July 31, 2006, there were no publicly announced plans or programs to
repurchase stock. 

   ITEM
6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data     

(1)      Fiscal 2006
included a gain on involuntary conversion of assets of $2.0 million. 

  (2)      Fiscal 2005
included a gain on involuntary conversion of assets of $9.9 million and a
release of deferred tax valuation allowances of $36.9 million. 

  (3)      Fiscal 2004
included charges of $22.1 million related to a change in multi-client
accounting and $7.4 million related to debt refinancing. The change in
multi-client accounting may affect the comparability between periods and is
more fully described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

  (4)      Fiscal 2003
included charges of $39.3 million for goodwill impairment, $4.9 million for
impairment of a multi-client survey, $7.6 million loss related to the sale of
our (RC)2 software operations and $21.0 million related to deferred tax asset
valuation allowances. 

  (5)      Fiscal
2002 included charges of $55.3 million for impairment of multi-client surveys,
$14.6 million for costs of a terminated merger and $6.5 million valuation
allowance for Argentine deferred tax assets. 

11     

ITEM
7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations     

   Overview   

  Fiscal 2006 proved to be
another year of strengthening conditions in the seismic industry, as it
continues to move out of the weak 1999 - 2003 timeframe to what appears to be a
robust future. We first noted a change in our marketplace during the second
half of calendar 2004, when we began to see exploration and production
companies actively competing with each other for access to seismic acquisition
assets in certain markets, driving prices upward. Indeed, the growth of demand
in the global marine seismic acquisition market was an industry highlight of
fiscal 2005, and continued through fiscal 2006 and is an area of strong growth
for us.  

  Over the last few years,
the seismic industry has been able to provide increased fidelity of subsurface
depiction in difficult areas to image, such as below the massive salt formations
in the Gulf of Mexico, by using advanced acquisition techniques, imaging
technologies and more powerful computers. Recently, exploration and production
companies have begun to show increased interest in these new techniques to
further illuminate the subsurface. While seismic has traditionally been used
primarily as an exploration tool, we are seeing increasing interest in new
seismic imaging techniques, such as multi- or wide-azimuth marine acquisition,
which offer better definition of complex structures, advancing the use of
seismic for reservoir delineation. We have been, and continue to be, the leader
in the area of improved imaging through our cutting edge imaging technologies.
Additionally, many of the surveys in our data library have been acquired or
enhanced using these advanced techniques. In the data acquisition area, we were
an early adopter of multi-component acquisition on land and, in fiscal 2005,
were the first company to acquire a large-scale wide-azimuth survey offshore.  

  The recent increased
interest in these enhanced acquisition and processing techniques is further
driven by the oil industry s inability to replace reserves at or above their
rate of use. Since the beginning of calendar 1985, on average, global oil
produced has significantly exceeded the annual volume of reserves discovered.
Accordingly, estimates of global excess oil capacity have been dropping while
demand has been increasing. The most obvious result of these trends is the
increasing global oil price, which has remained at relatively high levels.  

  To increase their reserve
replacement rate, we believe most of our customers will respond to the
challenge by increasing their exploration budgets over the next few years.
While much of their total exploration budgets may go toward drilling, they will
first need drillable prospects. The most successful tool for economically
finding these prospects is 3D seismic. The applicability of seismic has been
expanded greatly over the past decade. Where  standard  3D seismic has not been
sufficient, our advanced techniques have been used on certain geologic problems
with spectacular results, as exemplified by the delineation and discovery of
the large sub-salt reservoirs in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.  

  While the increases in
petroleum consumption may change from year to year, overall consumption seems
to be on a continuous climb upward. Similarly, new economic oil reserves seem
to be increasingly difficult to find, especially in areas of low political
risk. With this supply and demand situation, we are reasonably confident that
exploration spending will continue to rise, but more importantly, we expect
that more of that spending will be directed toward areas of geophysical
difficulty, requiring the high-end seismic services that we provide.  

  In this improving
business environment, our strategy to maximize performance has been to:  

            continue the long-term
commitment to building multi-client data libraries in areas such as the Gulf of
Mexico, the North Sea and onshore Canada and the United States; 

            invest in data processing
and research resources to maintain leadership in subsurface imaging through
continuous innovation; and 

            target innovative and higher
margin marine and land acquisition contracts in selected regions. 

  We expect to
continue our balanced contract and multi-client strategy through fiscal 2007.  

  Due to our sales and
operational efforts and the more robust seismic market, we have seen our
backlog increase $154 million from $302 million at July 31, 2005 to $456
million at July 31, 2006. We expect that approximately 90% of our July 31, 2006
backlog will be completed during the next twelve months. We believe that our
traditional pattern of revenue generation will occur again during fiscal 2007,
with revenue in our second and third fiscal quarters being higher than in our
first and fourth quarters. This pattern is driven by end of calendar year
spending, which results in higher library revenue in our second fiscal quarter.  

12     

We have organized the
company into four reportable segments: North and South America (NASA); Europe,
Africa, Middle East and Commonwealth of Independent States (EAME); Asia Pacific
(APAC); and Veritas Hampson-Russell (VHR). 
In NASA, EAME and APAC, we conduct geophysical surveys on both a
contract and a multi-client basis. When we conduct surveys on a contract basis,
we acquire and process data for a single client who pays us to conduct the
survey and owns the data we acquire. When we conduct surveys on a multi-client
basis, we acquire and process data for our own account and license that data
and associated products to multiple clients. 
NASA, EAME and APAC offer a common suite of these products and services
to their customers, although each product or service may be adapted to meet the
needs of the local markets.  VHR licenses
geophysical software and provides geophysical reservoir consulting
services.  The results of VHR s
operations were previously included in those of the NASA region; however,
beginning in fiscal 2006, senior management began to review the results of VHR
separately.  This segmentation of our
company is representative of the manner in which it is viewed and managed by
our senior managers and our Board of Directors.  

   Results of
Operations   

    Fiscal 2006 Compared with Fiscal 2005    

   Revenue.   Revenue for the year was up 30% from
$634.0 million in fiscal 2005 to $822.2 million in fiscal 2006.  The increases for the year came from all
product lines and across all geographic segments. 

  Increased multi client
revenue was driven by strong marine library sales in the Gulf of Mexico and in
Brazil .  Multi client land library sales were
more than double from a year ago primarily due to sales in US and Canada. 

  Contract
revenue in fiscal 2006 grew $81.1 million or 21% from the prior fiscal
year.  Increased revenue came from both
land and marine work.  Market conditions
continue to improve and strengthen our business worldwide and we saw much of
the growth in this fiscal year from land acquisition work in Canada and Alaska
as well as increased imaging revenue across all geographic operating
regions.  Marine acquisition revenue
remained strong in all geographic regions.  

  During fiscal 2006, NASA
revenue increased by $152.8 million. 
This increase is primarily due to marine and land multi-client library
sales in Canada, Gulf of Mexico and Brazil. 
NASA also increased its land acquisition work primarily in Canada and
Alaska.  EAME generated most of its
increased revenue through its marine acquisition work.  The increased revenue in the APAC segment
came primarily from its marine acquisition work.  

  Revenue from our
operating segments was as follows:  

13     

Revenue consisted of the following:  

Operating income.   Operating income of $132.9 million in fiscal 2006 was $68.6 million
higher than in fiscal year 2005.  This
performance was driven by increases in both multi-client revenue and
multi-client operating margins. The overall operating margin was also driven by
increased revenue and margins in land acquisition work due to increased
activity in Canada and Alaska.  Operating
income was also benefited by the $2.7 million reduction in depreciation expense
related to the land acquisition assets that were considered held for sale for
the last two months of the fiscal year. 
No depreciation expense was recorded during these two months for these
assets.  General and
administrative expenses of $43.2 million for the fiscal year 2006 increased
$11.3 million from the prior fiscal year primarily due to share-based
compensation expense resulting from the adoption of new accounting rules,
increased provision for performance-based incentive compensation, severance
costs, and non-recurring costs related to the preparation of the potential sale
of the land acquisition business. 

   Interest expense and interest
income.   Interest expense increased by $3.3 million from the
prior fiscal year as a result of increases in LIBOR, which is the interest rate
that the $155.0 million convertible debt is based upon.  Interest income increased approximately $6.7
million compared to the prior fiscal year due to higher interest rates and a
higher cash balance. 

   Involuntary conversion of asset  s.
The Company recognized a pre-tax insurance gain of $2 million in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006 related to insurance settlements for the equipment loss
on the Veritas Viking experienced in the second quarter of fiscal year
2005.  In fiscal year 2005, the Company
recognized a pre-tax gain of $9.9 million related to this insurance settlement. 

   Income taxes.    The Company s effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended July 31,
2006 was 41.0%.  This rate includes
approximately $2.5 million of additional tax cost associated with a $55 million
one-time repatriation from one of our foreign subsidiaries pursuant to the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company reversed $36.9 million of
valuation allowances on certain of its deferred tax assets resulting in a net
tax benefit of $37.3 million for the quarter and $6.8 million for the full
fiscal year. 

    Fiscal 2005 Compared with Fiscal 2004    

   Revenue.  
Revenue increased by 12% from $564.5 million in fiscal 2004 to $634.0 million
in fiscal 2005. This increase was driven by increased contract work, primarily
marine, in all regions and increased sales of multi-client data licenses in
EAME partially offset by decreased sales of multi-client data licenses
primarily in the NASA region, which includes the Gulf of Mexico, the United
States, Brazil and Canada. During fiscal 2005, NASA significantly decreased its
land acquisition operations in South America. NASA s increase in contract
marine work was primarily in the Gulf of Mexico where the Veritas Vantage and two
additional third party vessels acquired a wide azimuth survey during fiscal
2005. APAC s revenue increase was also generated by marine contract work, as we
operated the Veritas Viking II, the Pacific Sword and Veritas Searcher in
Australia, India, Myanmar and New Zealand during the period. EAME generated
most of its increased revenue through sales of multi-client data licenses for
offshore Africa and the North Sea. 

14     

Revenue from our
operating segments was as follows:  

Revenue consisted of the following:  

Operating income (loss).   Operating income increased by $36.4 million
from $27.8 million in fiscal 2004 to $64.2 million in fiscal 2005. During the
first quarter of fiscal 2004, we changed our multi-client amortization
accounting policy to include a minimum amortization from the date of survey
completion, instead of only during the last 24 months of the survey s book
life. As a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $22.1 million in cost
of services in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. The remaining $14.3 million
increase in operating income from fiscal 2004 is the result of increased
margins (revenue less cost of services) of $24.1 million partially offset by
increased research and development costs and general and administrative costs.
Our margin increase was primarily due to our revenue increase and a decrease in
cost of services as a percent of revenue of approximately 2%. Increased
productivity, favorable mix of jobs and higher pricing contributed to the
margin increase. 

  Research and development
costs have increased by $3.4 million from fiscal 2004 primarily due to our
focus on advanced acquisition and processing and general increases in research
spending. General and administrative expense increased by $6.4 million due to
the expenses associated with the restatement of our historical financial
statements and those associated with our increased efforts in the areas of
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over our financial
reporting. Research and development expense and general and administrative
expense both grew due to increased incentive compensation related to our
improved financial performance.  

   Interest expense and interest
income.   Interest expense decreased from $18.9 million in
fiscal 2004 to $4.0 million in fiscal 2005. This decrease is due primarily to
the issuance of our Convertible Senior Notes in the third quarter of fiscal
2004 and the repayment of our term notes with the proceeds. This refinancing
resulted in a significantly lower interest rate. Our Convertible Senior Notes
accrue interest at a rate of three month LIBOR less 0.75%, which equated to a
weighted average interest rate of 1.72% for fiscal 2005 and is much lower than
the various tranches of debt in place in fiscal 2004. In addition,
approximately $7.4 million of debt issuance costs were expensed in fiscal 2004
in connection with the retirement of the term notes.  Interest income increased from $1.6 million
to $5.3 million due to interest earned on the cash balances. 

   Involuntary conversion of asset  s.
In January 2005, our seismic vessel Veritas Viking experienced an engine
failure while acquiring data in the Gulf of Mexico and lost substantial amounts
of overboard seismic equipment. As this seismic equipment was insured at its
replacement cost, we recognized a $9.9 million gain related to the insurance
settlement. 

15     

Income taxes.   We reversed $36.9 million of valuation
allowances on certain of our deferred tax assets during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2005, resulting in a net tax benefit of $6.8 million for fiscal 2005.
The deferred tax assets were originally reserved at the end of fiscal 2003
primarily due to our historical losses in several tax jurisdictions. As of the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we had recognized profits in those jurisdictions
and had a positive operational outlook. The combination of these two factors
was sufficient to cause the reversal of the reserves. This decrease in provision was offset, in
part, by the increased current tax provision resulting from substantially
higher income in fiscal 2005. Excluding
the release of valuation allowances, our effective tax rate would have been
approximately 40%. (See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on income taxes.) 

   Liquidity and Capital Resources   

    Sources and Uses    

  Our internal sources of
liquidity are cash on hand and cash flow from operations.  External sources include our existing credit
facilities, public financing, equity sales, equipment financing, and trade
credit.  We believe that our current cash
balance and cash flow from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity
needs over the next twelve months.  

  Net cash provided by
operating activities was $     336.6 million for fiscal 2006, which is
consistent with fiscal 2005 of $331.3 million. 
Net cash used by investing activities of $216.8 million in 2006 was
slightly higher than $206.7 million in 2005 due to the increase in multi-client
library investment and expenditures for property and equipment partially offset
by the receipt of insurance proceeds. 
Our currently projected cash investments for fiscal 2007 include capital
expenditures to replace and upgrade existing equipment of approximately $200 to
$240 million and investment in our data library of approximately $250 to $300
million.  We expect to fund these
investments from our current cash on hand and from internally generated funds.  

  As of the beginning of
the second quarter of fiscal 2006, our convertible senior notes were
convertible.  See further discussion on
the convertibility of the notes below. 
The notes continued to be convertible as of July 31, 2006.  As of July 31, 2006, we had an adequate
amount of cash to fund the conversion of the notes which would require a
payment of the entire principal amount had all of the notes been converted on
that date.  

  While we believe that we
have adequate sources of funds to meet our liquidity needs even if we were
required to fund the conversion of the notes, our ability to meet our
obligations depends on our future performance, which is subject to many factors
beyond our control. Key factors affecting future results include utilization
levels of acquisition and processing assets and demand for multi-client library
surveys, all of which are driven by our customers  exploration spending and,
ultimately, the underlying commodity prices.  

  In March 2006, we
entered into an agreement with a third party ship owner to charter a vessel
currently known as the Veritas Vision, which is currently being converted for
seismic operations.  The term of the charter is for a period of eight
years fixed, with options of up to 10 more years.  When delivered in the
first calendar quarter of 2007, the Veritas Vision will be the seventh seismic
vessel in our fleet.  In addition to the
charter, we expect to invest approximately $62 million to equip the vessel for
seismic operations.  Of this expected total, approximately $5 million was
spent during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 and the remainder is
expected to be spent during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007.  

  In September 2006,
we entered into an agreement to charter a seismic vessel, currently known as the
Viking Poseidon, which is currently expected to be in service commencing in the
second calendar quarter of 2007.  This
vessel will serve as a replacement for the Seisquest vessel, which is under a
charter that expires in May of 2007.  

  We have also
entered into a commitment to purchase approximately $26 million of recording
equipment to upgrade a vessel in our existing fleet.  Substantially all of this amount will be
spent during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007.  

    Debt
Structure    

  As of July 31, 2006, our
notes payable consisted of $155.0 million of Convertible Senior Notes due 2024.
These notes are classified as a current liability as of July 31, 2006 because
the conversion feature discussed below results in the notes being convertible
at the option of the holders.  

16     

The Convertible Senior
Notes bear interest at a per annum rate which equals the three-month LIBOR
rate, adjusted quarterly, minus a spread of 0.75%.  The interest rate of the notes, from June 15,
2006 through September 14, 2006, was 4.58%, based on a LIBOR rate of
5.33%.  For fiscal 2006, the weighted
average interest rate on the notes was 3.66%. The notes will mature on March
15, 2024 and may not be redeemed by us prior to March 20, 2009. Holders of the
notes may require us to repurchase some, or all, of the notes on March 15,
2009, 2014 and 2019. They could also require repurchase upon a change of
control (as defined in the indenture under which the Convertible Senior Notes
were issued).  

   Under certain circumstances and
at the option of the holder, the  Convertible Senior Notes are convertible prior to the maturity date into cash and
shares of our common stock.  Certain of
these circumstances may result in classification of the Convertible Senior Notes as current on our balance
sheet.  These circumstances include:  

  1.                the
closing sale price of our common stock is over 120% of the conversion price,
which is currently $24.03 (with 120% being $28.84) for 20 trading days in the
period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the fiscal
quarter preceding the quarter in which the conversion occurs; 

  2.                if
we called the notes for redemption and the redemption has not occurred; 

  3.                the
occurrence of a five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price
of the notes was less than 95% of the closing sale price of our common stock on
such day multiplied by the conversion ratio; or 

  4.                the
occurrence of specified corporate transactions. 

  Should any of these
circumstances occur, the Convertible Senior Notes would be convertible at the
then current stock price times the conversion ratio of 41.6146. This amount
would be payable in cash equal to the principal amount of the notes, the par
value adjusted for dividends or other equity transactions, and the additional
amount payable in shares of our common stock. 
Currently, the maximum amount payable by us on conversion is $155
million in cash plus approximately 6.5 million shares. This settlement method
is prescribed in the indenture and is not at the discretion of any party.  The shares issuable from such conversion are
considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.  

  As of the beginning of
the second fiscal quarter of 2006, the Convertible Senior Notes were
convertible as the stock price remained greater than 120% of the Conversion
Price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days
ending on October 31, 2005.  The notes
continued to be convertible as of July 31, 2006.  Because of the convertibility, the notes have
been classified as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of
July 31, 2006.  The determination of the
convertibility of the notes occurs quarterly. 
Depending upon the common stock price in the future, the notes may not
be convertible in future quarters and therefore would not be classified as
current on our consolidated balance sheet. 
Assuming a stock price of $57.27 (which was the closing stock price on
July 31, 2006), conversion of all the notes would result in our payment of $155
million in cash and 3.7 million shares of common stock.  

  In connection with our issuance of the Convertible
Senior Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which
we agreed to register the resale of the notes and underlying common stock by
the holders thereof.  Under the terms of
that registration rights agreement, we were required to file a shelf
registration statement for the notes and underlying common stock within an
agreed amount of time and thereafter to keep it current or useable for two-year
period ending in March 2006.  If we
failed to file or keep the shelf registration statement related to this debt
effective or usable in accordance with the registration rights agreement, then,
subject to certain exceptions, we were required to pay liquidated damages to
all holders of notes and all holders of our common stock issued upon conversion
of the notes.  The liquidated damages to
be paid were equal to an annual rate of 0.50% of the principal amount.  In November 2005, the shelf registration
statement became no longer effective and, accordingly, we began accruing and
paying liquidated damages at approximately $2,100 per day.  We are not required to register the resale of
the notes and underlying common stock after March 10, 2006 and therefore, our
liability for the payment of liquidated damages ended on that date. For the
fiscal year end 2006, we have recorded and paid approximately $310,000 of
expense related to these liquidated damages.  

  In addition to the notes, we
also have a five-year $85 million revolving loan agreement with a syndicate of
banks.  We entered into this facility in
February 2006.  The facility provides for
revolving loans and the issuance of letters of credit to Veritas DGC Inc. and
certain of its subsidiaries of up to $45 million in the United States, $15
million in Canada, $15 million in Singapore and $10 million in the United
Kingdom.  As of July 31, 2006, there were
no borrowings and $3.8 million of outstanding letters of  

17     

credit, leaving $81.2 million available under the
revolving loan facility.  This new credit
facility replaced our previous credit facility that consisted primarily of a
revolving loan facility.  

   The facility is secured by
pledges of accounts receivable and the U.S. land data library, which, when
added together, have a carrying amount of approximately $242   million as of July 31, 2006.  The facility is also secured by certain
intercompany notes and stock in certain Veritas subsidiaries.  Veritas and certain of its subsidiaries have also
issued loan guarantees with respect to certain borrowings. Interest rates on
borrowings under the facility are selected by the borrower at the time of any
advance and the rates so selected may be either at LIBOR plus 1.00% or the Base
Rate (defined as the lesser of the applicable prime rate or the federal funds
rate).  These rates may be adjusted
upward depending upon our leverage ratio (calculated as a ratio of funded debt
versus EBITDA for the previous four quarters) to a maximum of LIBOR plus 1.50%
or the base rate plus 0.50%.  The loan
agreement and related documents contain customary financial covenants and
default provisions, including a limit on the amount of cash dividends.  These covenants contain certain financial
measurements as of quarter ending dates, and, as of our last fiscal quarter
ended July 31, 2006, we were in compliance with these covenants.  

  We also have various unsecured
lines of credit, with lending institutions that operate in geographic areas not
covered by the lending institutions in our credit facility, totaling $8.5
million that may be used exclusively for the issuance of letters of credit and
bank guarantees. As of July 31, 2006, $1.0 million in letters of credit were
outstanding under these lines.  

  The following table
presents our contractual obligations as of July 31, 2006 for the specified
periods:  

(1)      The
debt of $155 million has been classified as a current liability since October
31, 2005 because the stock price has remained above the level that triggers the
convertibility features of the debt. 

  (2)      The
interest rate on our debt is LIBOR less 0.75%. For purposes of this table, we
used our current interest rate of 4.58% based on a LIBOR rate of 5.33%. Each 100
basis point increase in LIBOR will increase our annual interest expense by
$1.55 million per year. 

  (3)      Includes
income tax, deferred revenue, pension and retirement obligations for which the
timing of payment is uncertain. 

   Off -Balance Sheet Arrangements   

  As of July 31, 2006, we
had no off-balance sheet instruments.  

   Critical
Accounting Policies   

  While all of our
accounting policies are important in assuring that we adhere to current
accounting standards, certain policies are particularly important due to their
impact on our financial statements or the degree of subjectivity inherent in
the assumptions required by the policies. These are described in detail below.  

    Revenue Recognition    

  Customer contracts for
our services vary in terms and conditions. We review the deliverables in each
contract and, where applicable, apply the accounting guidance contained in EITF
00-21,  Accounting for Revenue Contracts with Multiple Deliverables  (EITF
00-21).  

18     

For contract
services, we recognize revenue on a proportional performance method based upon
output measures as work is performed. This method requires that we recognize
revenue based upon quantifiable measures of progress, such as kilometers shot
or processed. In contracts where our customer pays separately for the mobilization
of equipment, EITF 00-21 requires us to recognize such mobilization fees as
revenue during the performance of the seismic acquisition, using the same
proportional performance method as for the acquisition work.  

  Revenue from the
licensing of multi-client surveys is based upon agreed rates set forth in the
contract and are recognized upon physical delivery of, or customer access to,
the surveys. During the acquisition and processing phase of a multi-client
survey, in most cases we recognize revenue on in process multi-client surveys
after obtaining a signed license agreement that gives the customers access to
survey results as they occur, based upon a proportional performance method,
using quantifiable measures of progress, such as kilometers shot or processed.
After completion of a multi-client survey, we recognize revenue upon delivery
of, or customer access to, the data to our customer or the customer s designee.  

  Provisions exist in
certain contracts with our customers that provide for a full refund if certain
deadlines are not met or provide for a revenue sharing arrangement with the
customer such that the final sales price is not fixed or determinable. For
contracts with these provisions, we do not recognize the revenue under the
proportional performance method for that contract and, instead, defer revenue
recognition until performance is complete or the sales price is fixed or
determinable.  

    Multi-Client Data Library    

  We collect and process
geophysical data for our own account and retain all ownership rights. We
license the data to clients on a non-transferable basis. In some circumstances,
we have sold, on a non-exclusive basis, rights to data prior to our collecting
and processing such data, i.e., we have made the first of what we anticipate
will be multiple discrete sales of licenses to the same data.  

  We capitalize costs
associated with acquiring and processing the data as an investment in our
multi-client data library. The capitalized costs of multi-client data are
charged to cost of services in the period sales of licenses occur based upon
the greater of the percentage of total costs to total estimated sales for the
first five years multiplied by actual sales, a process called the sales
forecast method, or five-year straight-line amortization from the date of
survey completion. The sales forecast method is our primary method of
calculating cost of services. We believe this method of amortizing the
capitalized costs aligns the amount of amortization to the period in which the
economic benefits of the capitalized costs are consumed.  

  Estimated sales are
determined based upon discussions with our clients, our experience and our
knowledge of industry trends. Changes in sales estimates may have the effect of
changing the percentage relationship of cost of services to revenue. In
applying the sales forecast method, an increase in the projected sales of a
survey will result in lower cost of services as a percentage of revenue, and
higher earnings when revenue associated with that particular survey is recognized,
while a decrease in projected sales will have the opposite effect.  

  Assuming that the overall
volume of sales, the mix of surveys generating revenue in the period, and
minimum amortization amounts were held constant in fiscal 2006, an increase of
10% in the sales forecasts of all of our surveys would have decreased our cost
of services by less than 2%, or approximately $12 million.  

  Our ability to accurately
forecast sales of our library surveys for several years into the future is
affected by unforeseeable changes in commodity prices, exploration success in
the area of the survey and the overall investment decisions of our customers.
Therefore, we update our sales forecast for surveys with a significant book
value on a quarterly basis to ensure that the most current market information
is considered.  

  The total
amortization period of 60 months represents the minimum period over which
benefits from these surveys are expected to be derived. We have determined the
amortization period of 60 months based upon our historical experience that
indicates that the majority of our revenue from multi-client surveys are
derived during the acquisition and licensing phases and during the 5 years
subsequent to survey completion. Any future decrease in the minimum amortization
period would have the effect of increasing cost of services and reducing the
carrying value of the multi-client data library.  

  We periodically review
the carrying value of the multi-client data library to assess whether there has
been a permanent impairment of value and record losses when it is determined
that estimated future sales would not be sufficient to cover the carrying value
of the asset. Any future reductions in sales estimates may result in an
impairment charge that increases cost of services and reduces the carrying
value of the multi-client data library.  

19     

Deferred Tax Asset    

  Deferred taxes result
from the effect of transactions that are recognized in different periods for
financial and tax reporting purposes. A valuation allowance, by tax jurisdiction,
is established when it is more likely than not that at least some portion of
the related deferred tax asset will not be realized. The amount of a valuation
allowance is later reduced if realization of the related deferred tax asset
subsequently becomes more likely than not. 
As of July 31, 2006, we had $19.3 million of valuation allowances
related to deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where historical losses or
certain limitations on their use indicate realization is doubtful.  

    Software Capitalization and Amortization    

  Software available
for sale is included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
Software acquired through the purchase of software companies is capitalized at
its estimated fair market value through the allocation of the purchase price.
For internally developed software, we capitalize costs associated with the
development of the product from the time the product reaches technological
feasibility until it is ready for commercial release.  

  The amortization of
capitalized software is the greater of the amount computed using (a) the ratio
that current gross revenue for a product bear to the total of current and
anticipated future gross revenue for that product or (b) the straight-line
method over the remaining estimated economic life of the product including the
period being reported on. The period of amortization begins when the software
is released to the market. Estimated useful lives of our software products
range from three to five years.  

  Estimated sales are
determined based upon discussions with our clients, our experience and our
knowledge of industry trends. Changes in sales estimates will have the effect
of changing cost of services. An increase in projected sales will result in
lower cost of services as a percentage of sales and higher earnings. A decrease
in projected sales will result in higher cost of services as a percentage of
sales and lower earnings. Any future increases or decreases in our estimates of
useful lives will have the effect of decreasing or increasing future cost of
services with an inverse effect on earnings.  

    Share
Based Compensation    

  As of August 1, 2005, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standard
Board Statement No. 123(R) (SFAS 123R) to account for share based
compensation.  SFAS 123R requires us to record
the cost of stock options and other equity-based compensation in our income
statement based upon the estimated fair value of those awards.  We elected to use the modified prospective
method for adoption, which requires compensation expense to be recorded for all
unvested stock options and other equity-based compensation beginning in the
first quarter of adoption.  For all
unvested options outstanding as of August 1, 2005, the previously measured but
unrecognized compensation expense, based on the fair value at the original
grant date, we began recognizing in the statement of operations over the
remaining vesting period. For equity-based compensation granted subsequent to
August 1, 2005, compensation expense, based on the fair value on the date of
grant, we began recognizing in the statement of operations over the vesting
period.  Determining the fair value of
stock based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating
the expected term of stock options, the expected volatility of our stock and
the amount of stock options to be forfeited. 
If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, share based
compensation expense and the results of operations could be materially
impacted.  As of July 31, 2006, there was
approximately $7.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested share-based compensation arrangements.  That cost is expected to be recognized on a
straight line basis over the weighted average remaining period which is
approximately 2 years.  

    Pension
Plan    

  We maintain a
contributory defined benefit pension plan (the  Pension Plan ) for eligible
participating employees in the United Kingdom. Monthly contributions by
employees are equal to 7.0% of their salaries increased from 5.5% effective
December 1, 2005. We provide an additional contribution in an actuarially
determined amount necessary to fund future benefits to be provided under the
Pension Plan. Benefits provided are based upon 1/60 of the employee s final
pensionable salary (as defined in the Pension Plan) for each complete year of
service up to 2/3 of the employee s final pensionable salary and increase
annually in line with inflation subject to a maximum of 5% per annum. The
Pension Plan also provides for 50% of such actual or expected benefits to be
paid to a surviving spouse upon the death of a participant. Pension Plan assets
consist mainly of investments in marketable securities that are held and
managed by an independent trustee.  

20     

The Pension Plan
is impacted by certain actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate, the
expected rate of return on plan assets and expected salary increases. These
rates are evaluated by outside actuaries and senior management on an annual
basis and adjusted only as appropriate to reflect changes in market rates and
outlook.  In accordance with U.S. GAAP,
the net amount by which actual results differ from our assumptions is deferred.
If this net deferred amount exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or
liabilities, a portion of the deferred amount is included in expense for the
following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes, such as increasing or
decreasing benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost), is
deferred and included in expense on a straight-line basis over the average
remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits.  

  The expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings
expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits
included in the projected benefit obligation. We have used a rate we believe is
appropriate for long-term investment in an equity-based portfolio.  For fiscal 2006, the average return on assets
assumption was 6.5% compared to a historical actual rate of return of 6.5% over
the past 10 years.  A 0.25% decrease in
the expected return on plan assets would increase our net periodic pension cost
by approximately $0.1 million.  

  The discount rate
is determined by using the return available from an index of AA-rated corporate
non-callable bonds of appropriate duration and currency. For fiscal 2006, the
discount rate used was 5.0%. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would
increase our net periodic pension cost by approximately $0.3 million.  

  For fiscal 2007,
we plan to contribute approximately $1.4 million to the pension scheme and we
expect to continue to fund the pension scheme at an appropriate level over the
remaining life of the scheme.  

  In fiscal 2006, we recorded net pension expense of $2.8 million compared
to $1.2 million in fiscal 2005 and $1.0 million in fiscal 2004.  

   Recent Accounting Pronouncements   

  In
December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-1,  Application
of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax
Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004,  which provides guidance on the recently enacted American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ). The Act provides a U.S. tax deduction
for income from qualified domestic production activities beginning in our
fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.   FSP
109-1 provides for the treatment of the deduction as a special deduction as
described in SFAS No. 109. Accordingly, we will record the amount of any
special deductions in the years they are taken. 
The impact of this deduction did not have a material impact on our
fiscal year 2006 financial statements.  

  In December 2004,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-2,  Accounting and Disclosure
Guidance for the Foreign Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004,  which provides guidance under SFAS No. 109 with
respect to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the
Act on a company s income tax expense and deferred tax liability. FSP 109-2
states that a company is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of
enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or
repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS
No. 109.  During July 2006, the
Company elected to repatriate $55 million from one of its foreign subsidiaries
to realize the benefits of this provision of the Act.  We plan to use the net proceeds for
qualifying U.S. expenditures.   The impact of the repatriation was
approximately $2.5 million increase to the fiscal 2006 tax provision. 

  In
December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,      Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets   an
amendment of APB Opinion No. 29,  to address the measurement of exchanges
of nonmonetary assets.  SFAS No. 153 eliminates the exception from
fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets
and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets
that do not have commercial substance.  A nonmonetary exchange has
commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to
change significantly as a result of the exchange.  This statement was adopted by the company
beginning August 1, 2005.  The adoption of this statement had no impact on
the company s financial statements.  

  In May 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of
APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  SFAS No. 154 requires
retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements for changes in
accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 also
requires that a change in depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for
long-lived, non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting
estimate effected by a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 is  

21     

effective for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. The implementation of SFAS No. 154 is not expected to
have a material impact on the company s financial statements.  

  In February 2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  
an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 150.   SFAS No. 155 (a) p  ermits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid
financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would
require bifurcation, (b) clarifies that certain instruments are not subject to
the requirements of SFAS 133, (c) establishes a requirement to evaluate
interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that may
contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, (d) clarifies what may be
an embedded derivative for certain concentrations of credit risk and (e) amends
SFAS 140 to eliminate certain prohibitions related to derivatives on a
qualifying special-purpose entity.  SFAS
155 is effective for us for the fiscal year beginning August 1, 2007.   The implementation of SFAS No. 155 is
not expected to have a material impact on the company s financial statements .  

  In July 2006, the FASB
issued FASB Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  FIN No. 48
clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting
for Income Taxes.  FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement
of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The new
standard also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure. The provisions of FIN
No. 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are
currently evaluating the provisions of FIN No. 48 to determine the impact on
our consolidated financial statements.  

  In September 2006,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. AUG AIR-1,  Accounting for Planned
Major Maintenance Activities.  This guidance prohibits the use of the
accrue-in-advance method of accounting for planned major activities because an
obligation has not occurred and therefore a liability should not be
recognized.  The provisions of this
guidance will be effective for us for the fiscal year beginning August 1,
2007.  We are currently evaluating the
provisions of this guidance to determine the impact on our consolidated
financial statements.  

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires an employer to: (a) 
Recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan s
overfunded status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status; (b) 
Measure a plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as
of the end of the employer s fiscal year (with limited exceptions); (c) 
Recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan
in the year in which the changes occur. Those changes will be reported in
comprehensive income of a business entity and in changes in net assets of a
not-for-profit organization.  The
requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure
requirements are effective for us for the fiscal year ending on July 31,
2007.  The requirement to measure plan
assets and benefit obligations as of the date of our fiscal year-end balance
sheet is effective for us for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2009.  We are currently evaluating the provisions of
this guidance to determine the impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

   ITEM
7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Market Risk     

  As
of July 31, 2006, we had $155.0 million Convertible Senior Notes bearing
interest at LIBOR less 0.75% with a fair value of $  383  million,
based upon the bid price of  247.25  on July 31, 2006. These notes are not hedged
and represent our total exposure to interest rate risk. Each 100 basis point
increase in the LIBOR rate will increase our interest expense by $1.6 million
per year.  We operate in a number of
international areas and are involved in transactions denominated in currencies
other than U.S. dollars, which exposes us to foreign exchange rate risk.  We review these risks on a case-by-case
basis.  We have not entered into any
hedges related to this foreign exchange rate risk in fiscal 2006. 

22  

ITEM
8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   

Management s Responsibilities
  for Financial Statements   

Report of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Consolidated
  Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the Three Years Ended
  July 31, 2006   

Consolidated Balance
  Sheets as of July 31, 2006 and 2005   

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows for the Three Years Ended July 31, 2006   

Consolidated
  Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity for the Three Years Ended July
  31, 2006   

Notes to
  Consolidated Financial Statements   

Financial Statement Schedule - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves   

23  

Management s Responsibilities for Financial
Statements    

  To the Stockholders of
Veritas DGC Inc.:  

  The accompanying
consolidated financial statements of Veritas DGC Inc. and its subsidiaries are
the responsibility of management and have been prepared in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. They
necessarily include some amounts that are based on best judgments and
estimates. The financial information displayed in other sections of this report
is consistent with these financial statements.  

  The Board of
Directors pursues its oversight role in the area of financial reporting and
internal control over financial reporting through its Audit Committee. This
committee, composed solely of independent directors, regularly meets (jointly
and separately) with the independent registered public accounting firm,
management and internal auditors to monitor the proper discharge by each of
their responsibilities relative to internal control over financial reporting
and the consolidated financial statements.  

Thierry Pilenko 

Mark E. Baldwin  

Chairman of the Board and   

Executive Vice President,   

Chief Executive Officer   

Chief Financial Officer and 
  Treasurer   

Management s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting  

  To the Stockholders of
Veritas DGC Inc.:  

  Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a   15(f) under the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934). An evaluation of the design and effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting, based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, was conducted
under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on the results of
this evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of July 31, 2006.  

  Our assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of July 31,
2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their audit report, which is included
herein.  

Thierry Pilenko 

Mark E. Baldwin  

Chairman of the Board and   

Executive Vice President,   

Chief Executive Officer   

Chief Financial Officer and 
  Treasurer   

24     

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

  To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of Veritas DGC Inc.:  

  We have completed
integrated audits of Veritas DGC Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial
statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of July 31,
2006, and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States).  Our opinions, based on our
audits, are presented below.  

   Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule   

  In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Veritas DGC Inc.
and its subsidiaries at July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
July 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America.  In
addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
accompanying index  presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.  We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).  Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit of financial
statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  As discussed in Note 1 to
the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its accounting for
amortization of multi-client data library on August 1, 2003. As discussed in
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner
in which it accounts for share based compensation in fiscal 2006.  

   Internal control
over financial reporting   

  Also, in our
opinion, management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, appearing under Item 9A,
that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of July 31, 2006 based on criteria established in  Internal
Control - Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework  issued by the
COSO.  The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting.  Our responsibility is to
express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States).  Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects.  An audit of internal
control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment,
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
circumstances.  We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.  A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of  

25     

financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements.  Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Houston, Texas  

  October 4, 2006  

26  

VERITAS DGC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     

   (In thousands, except per share
amounts)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

27     

VERITAS DGC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET     

   (Dollars in thousands, except par
value)   

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  

28     

VERITAS DGC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

   (Dollars in thousands)   

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  

29     

VERITAS DGC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   SUPPLEMENTARY SCHEDULES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

   (Dollars in thousands)   

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  

30     

VERITAS DGC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY     

   For the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004   

   (In
thousands, except share amounts)   

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  

31  

VERITAS DGC INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS     

   For the years ended July 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004   

   1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    

    Consolidation    

  The
accompanying consolidated financial statements include our accounts and the
accounts of majority-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries as well as those
variable interest entities for which we are the primary beneficiary.  All material intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated.   

    Use of Estimates    

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  

    Fair Value of Financial Instruments    

  Our financial instruments
include cash and short-term investments, restricted cash investments, accounts
receivable, accounts payable and debt. The approximate fair market value of our
variable rate debt at July 31, 2006 is $383 million. The carrying value is a
reasonable estimate of fair value for all other financial instruments.  

    Translation of Foreign Currencies    

  The U.S. dollar is the
functional currency of all of our operations except in Canada, which uses the
Canadian dollar as its functional currency. Currency gains and losses result
from the re-measurement of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies
other than their functional currency and are included in  Other (Income)
Expense, Net.   

    Cash Equivalents    

  For purposes of the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, we
define cash equivalents as items readily convertible into known amounts of cash
with original maturities of three months or less.  

    Restricted Cash Investments    

  Restricted cash
investments in the amounts of $302,000 at July 31, 2006 and $237,000 at July
31, 2005 were pledged as collateral on certain bank guarantees related to
contracts entered into in the normal course of business and are classified as
restricted cash investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

    Accounts Receivable    

  Unbilled amounts of
approximately $62.0 million at July 31, 2006 and $57.4 million at July 31, 2005
were included in accounts receivable. These amounts represent work performed or
services or products delivered to customers but not billable at the fiscal year
ends in accordance with contract provisions and generally are expected to be
billed in one to four months. Our allowance for doubtful accounts is
established based upon past due customer accounts specifically identified
during our periodic account analyses.  

32     

Inventories    

  Inventories of materials
and supplies are stated at the lower of average cost or market.  

    Property and Equipment    

  Property and equipment
are recorded at cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method
based on estimated useful lives as follows:  

Estimated  
  Useful Life 
  In Years   

Geophysical equipment  

3-5  

Data processing equipment  

3  

Leasehold
  improvements and other  

3-15  

Depreciation related to
assets used in the production of the multi-client library and development of
certain software is capitalized. Amounts capitalized were $13.3 million, $11.4
million and $18.6 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Expenditures for routine
repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. We are
contractually obligated to periodically put our chartered vessels into port so
that the vessel owner can perform legally required maintenance and inspections.
The ship owner is responsible for all costs of performing the maintenance and
inspections, while we continue to incur all of the fixed charges associated
with operation of the vessel including charter fees, depreciation and personnel
costs. We accrue for these continuing costs in advance of port calls, as these
unavoidable costs are not directly associated with revenue generation. The
balances of such accruals were $6.0 million and $3.2 million at July 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. Expenditures for additions and improvements, including
capitalized interest, are capitalized and depreciated over the estimated useful
life of the related assets.  

    Multi-Client Data Library    

  We collect and process
geophysical data for our own account and retain ownership rights. We license
the data to customers on a non-transferable basis. In some circumstances, we
have sold, on a non-exclusive basis, rights to data prior to our collecting and
processing such data, i.e., we have made the first of what we anticipate will
be multiple discrete sales of licenses to the same data. We capitalize all costs
directly associated with acquiring and processing the data, including the
depreciation of the assets used in production of the surveys. We refer to these
costs as our gross multi-client investment. All costs, excluding the
capitalized depreciation, are our net multi-client investment, or as used in
this document  investment in multi-client library, net cash,  and represent
cash investment in the library.  

  The capitalized cost of
multi-client data is charged to cost of services in the period sales occur based
on the greater of the percentage of total estimated costs to total estimated
sales in the first five years multiplied by actual sales, known as the sales
forecast method, or the straight-line amortization method over five years. The
sales forecast method is our primary method of calculating cost of services. In
addition to the sales forecast method, through July 31, 2003, any costs that
remained 36 months after completion of a multi-client survey were charged on a
straight-line basis to cost of services over a period not to exceed the next 24
months. This minimum straight-line amortization was recorded only if minimum
amortization exceeded the cost of services calculated using the sales forecast
method. Effective August 1, 2003, we changed our multi-client policy to
commence the minimum amortization from the date of survey completion, instead
of only during the last 24 months of survey book life.  

  We periodically review
the carrying value of the multi-client data library to assess whether there has
been a permanent impairment of value and record losses when it is determined
that estimated future sales would not be sufficient to cover the carrying value
of the asset. In fiscal 2003, we recognized a $4.9 million pretax impairment
charge related to a survey in the Gulf of Mexico that we have been unable to
license. This survey was acquired at right angles to an existing survey and,
while a technical success, customers have not been willing to pay for the
increased resolution.  

33     

Multi-Client
Data Library   Change in Estimate Effected by a Change in Accounting Principle    

  Effective August 1, 2003,
we changed our minimum amortization policy with regard to multi-client data and
recorded a charge of $22.1 million, included in cost of services in our
Consolidated Statement of Operations. Under the prior method, capitalized costs
of multi-client surveys were charged to cost of services in the period sales
occurred, using the sales forecast method, over an estimated five-year useful
life. However, during the last 24 months of a survey s useful life,
amortization was the greater of the amount resulting from the sales forecast
method or straight-line amortization of the remaining book value over the
remaining portion of the original five-year estimated useful life. Under the
new method, capitalized costs of multi-client surveys are charged to cost of
services over an estimated five-year useful life based upon the greater (higher
expense) of the result under the sales forecast method or cumulative
straight-line amortization from survey completion over an estimated five-year
useful life. Notwithstanding this change, the sales forecast method remains our
primary method of calculating cost of services. The total amortization period
that concludes sixty months after survey completion represents the minimum
period over which the surveys are expected to provide economic benefits. We
believe that commencing the minimum amortization upon survey completion, as
opposed to our prior method of doing so only during the last twenty-four months
of the survey s life, better reflects the potential decrease of survey value
with the passage of time.  

    Revenue    

  Customer contracts for
our services vary in terms and conditions. We review the deliverables in each
contract and, where applicable, apply the accounting guidance contained in EITF
00-21.  

  Revenue from contract
services is recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract. For fixed
price contracts, the proportional performance method is used based upon output
measures. Revenue is measured by the amount of data collected or processed
compared to the total amount of data to be collected or processed. For day rate
contracts, revenue is recognized based on time incurred. In contracts where our
customer pays separately for the mobilization of equipment, we recognize such
mobilization fees as revenue during the performance of the seismic acquisition,
using the same proportional performance method as for the acquisition work.  

  Revenue from the
licensing of multi-client surveys is based upon agreed rates set forth in the
contract and are recognized upon delivery of such data. We have no additional
obligations to the customer subsequent to delivery. Revenue generated from
licensing of in-process multi-client surveys is recognized after obtaining a
signed license agreement that gives the customers access to survey results as
they occur based upon a proportional performance method, using quantifiable
measures of progress, such as kilometers shot or processed, similar to the
method for contract services. For partially completed projects, contract
customers and customers who enter license agreements on multi-client surveys
generally have access to the data as it is being collected. There are no
provisions for updates or enhancements in any of our survey licenses. In
accordance with our license terms, the customer generally does not have the
right to return the data for refund. Infrequently we enter into contracts where
revenue recognition is affected by certain contingencies. In some contracts,
the ultimate price paid by the customer may not be fixed or determinable due to
revenue sharing clauses. In these projects, we recognize revenue from those
customers only to the extent that the net price of the data to them is, or has
become, fixed. We also enter into contracts where the customer has a right of
return based upon date contingencies. In these projects, we do not apply the
proportional performance method and, instead, we recognize revenue only after
the date contingency is resolved.  

    Leases    

  Our operating
leases include those for office space, specialized geophysical equipment,
computer equipment and our geophysical vessels, which are chartered on a
short-term basis, of up to 8 years, relative to their useful economic lives of
approximately 30 years.  

    Mobilization Costs    

  Transportation and other
expenses incurred prior to commencement of geophysical operations in an area
are deferred and amortized over the term of the related contract. Unamortized
mobilization costs of $5.2 million and $4.2 million were included in other
current assets at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Amounts applicable to
surveys performed for our own account are included in the cost of the
multi-client data library.  

34     

Research and Development    

   Costs
related to the research  and   development ,
primarily salaries and benefits of employees,  are charged to research and development expenses as incurred.  

    Share Based Compensation    

  As of August 1, 2005, we
adopted the Financial Accounting Standard Board Statement No. 123(R) (SFAS
123R) to account for share based compensation. 
SFAS 123R requires us to record the cost of stock options and other
equity-based compensation in our income statement based upon the estimated fair
value of those awards.  We elected to use
the modified prospective method for adoption, which requires compensation
expense to be recorded for all unvested stock options and other equity-based
compensation beginning in the first quarter of adoption.  Accordingly, prior periods have not been
restated to reflect share based compensation. 
For all unvested options outstanding as of August 1, 2005, the
previously measured but unrecognized compensation expense, based on the fair
value at the original grant date, we began recognizing in the statement of
operations over the remaining vesting period. For equity-based compensation
granted subsequent to August 1, 2005, compensation expense, based on the fair
value on the date of grant, we began recognizing in the statement of operations
over the vesting period.  For deferred
share units, it is our policy to determine the fair value of the units based on
our common stock price at the date of grant which is then expensed over the
applicable service period.    

  Prior to August 1, 2005,
we accounted for equity-based compensation using the intrinsic method prescribed
in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,  and related Interpretations. Under that method, compensation
expense is recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements when
the quoted market price of the underlying stock at the grant date or other
measurement date exceeds the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.
Our plans do not permit us to grant stock options at a price lower than market,
therefore, we did not record any compensation expense related to stock
options.  As required by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation,  we disclose the pro forma effect of stock-based
compensation expense on net income and earnings per share that would have been
recorded had we used the fair value based method.   

  We have disclosed below
the effect on net income and earnings per share of equity-based compensation,
including stock options, that would have been recorded using the fair value
based method for years ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004.  

35     

The weighted average
grant date fair values of options granted during fiscal 2005 and 2004 were
$10.81 and $6.32, respectively.  These
values were determined using the Black-Scholes option valuation method assuming
no expected dividends. Other assumptions used are as follows:  

Earnings Per Share    

  The computation of basic
earnings per share is based on the weighted average common shares outstanding,
including exchangeable shares. The computation of diluted earnings per share is
based upon the weighted average common shares outstanding and additional common
shares, utilizing the treasury stock method and average market prices, which
would have been outstanding if dilutive potential common shares had been
issued. Potentially dilutive securities include stock options and restricted
stock issued to our employees and directors and our Convertible Senior Notes.   

    Recent Accounting Pronouncements    

  In
December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-1,  Application
of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax
Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004,  which provides guidance on the recently enacted American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ). The Act provides a U.S. tax deduction
for income from qualified domestic production activities beginning in our
fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.   FSP
109-1 provides for the treatment of the deduction as a special deduction as
described in SFAS No. 109. Accordingly, we will record the amount of any
special deductions in the years they are taken. 
The impact of this deduction did not have a material impact on our
fiscal year 2006 financial statements.    

  In December 2004,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-2,  Accounting and Disclosure
Guidance for the Foreign Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004,  which provides guidance under SFAS No. 109 with
respect to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the
Act on a company s income tax expense and deferred tax liability. FSP 109-2
states that a company is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of
enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or
repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109.  During July 2006, the Company elected to
repatriate $55 million from one of its foreign subsidiaries to realize the
benefits of this provision of the Act. 
We plan to use the net proceeds for qualifying U.S. expenditures.   The impact of the repatriation was approximately $2.5 million increase
to the fiscal 2006 tax provision.    

  In
December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,    Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets   an
amendment of APB Opinion No. 29,  to address the measurement of exchanges
of nonmonetary assets.  SFAS No. 153 eliminates the exception from
fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets
and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets
that do not have commercial substance.  A nonmonetary exchange has
commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to
change significantly as a result of the exchange.  This statement was adopted by the company
beginning August 1, 2005.  The adoption of this statement had no impact on
the company s financial statements.  

  In May 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of
APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  SFAS No. 154 requires
retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements for changes in
accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 also
requires that a change in depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for
long-lived, non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting
estimate effected by a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 is effective
for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. The implementation of SFAS No. 154 is not expected to
have a material impact on the company s financial statements.  

  In February 2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  
an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 150.   SFAS No. 155 (a) p  ermits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid
financial instrument  

36     

that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require
bifurcation, (b) clarifies that certain instruments are not subject to the
requirements of SFAS 133, (c) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests
in securitized financial assets to identify interests that may contain an
embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, (d) clarifies what may be an
embedded derivative for certain concentrations of credit risk and (e) amends
SFAS 140 to eliminate certain prohibitions related to derivatives on a
qualifying special-purpose entity.  SFAS
155 is effective for us for the fiscal year beginning August 1, 2007.   The implementation of SFAS No. 155 is
not expected to have a material impact on the company s financial statements  .   

  In July 2006, the FASB
issued FASB Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  FIN No. 48 clarifies
the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes.  FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute
for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken
or expected to be taken in a tax return. The new standard also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting
in interim periods and disclosure. The provisions of FIN No. 48 are effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are currently evaluating
the provisions of FIN No. 48 to determine the impact on our consolidated
financial statements.  

  In September 2006,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. AUG AIR-1,  Accounting for Planned
Major Maintenance Activities.  This guidance prohibits the use of the
accrue-in-advance method of accounting for planned major activities because an
obligation has not occurred and therefore a liability should not be
recognized.  The provisions of this
guidance will be effective for us for the fiscal year beginning August 1,
2007.  We are currently evaluating the
provisions of this guidance to determine the impact on our consolidated
financial statements.  

  In September 2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106,
and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires an
employer to:  (a)  Recognize in its
statement of financial position an asset for a plan s overfunded status or a
liability for a plan s underfunded status; (b)  Measure a plan s assets
and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the
employer s fiscal year (with limited exceptions); (c)  Recognize changes
in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in the year in
which the changes occur. Those changes will be reported in comprehensive income
of a business entity and in changes in net assets of a not-for-profit
organization.  The requirement to
recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements
are effective for us for the fiscal year ending on July 31, 2007.  The requirement to measure plan assets and
benefit obligations as of the date of our fiscal year-end balance sheet is
effective for us for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2009.  We are currently evaluating the provisions of
this guidance to determine the impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

   2. Other assets   

    Software    

  For internally developed software designed for external
licensing, we capitalize costs associated with the development of the product
from the time the product reaches technological feasibility until it is ready
for commercial release. Software available for sale is included in other assets
on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

  The capitalized cost of the software, whether developed
or purchased, is charged to cost of services in the period sales occur based on
the percentage of total cost to total estimated sales multiplied by actual
sales during the period. The software is also subject to a minimum amortization
equal to the unamortized balance at the beginning of the period divided by the
remaining book life. Estimated useful lives of our software products range from
three to five years. Amortization expense for our software was $3.6 million,
$3.3 million and $3.1 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

37     

Debt Issuance Costs    

  We capitalize costs incurred during the process of
obtaining debt financing, including commissions, legal fees, and filing fees.
We amortize these costs over the life of the related debt instrument. In the
case of our Convertible Senior Notes, which have a life of 20 years, we are
amortizing the debt issuance costs over the 5-year period from the Convertible
Senior Notes  issuance to the first date the Convertible Senior Notes are
redeemable, absent certain specified conditions. The amortization of debt
issuance cost, recorded in interest expense, was $1.3 million, $1.2 million and
$7.1 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The debt issuance
cost amortization in fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from the retirement of our
Term Debt and the expensing of all related issuance costs.  

  The carrying value of our software and debt issuance
costs is as follows:  

3. Notes payable and debt structure   

  As of July 31, 2006, our
notes payable consisted of $155.0 million of Convertible Senior Notes due 2024.
These notes are classified as a current liability as of July 31, 2006 because
the conversion feature discussed below results in the notes being convertible
at the option of the holders.  

  The Convertible Senior
Notes bear interest at a per annum rate which equals the three-month LIBOR
rate, adjusted quarterly, minus a spread of 0.75%.  The interest rate of the notes, from June 15,
2006 through September 14, 2006, is 4.58%, based on a LIBOR rate of 5.33%.  For fiscal 2006, the weighted average
interest rate on the notes was 3.66%. The notes will mature on March 15, 2024
and may not be redeemed by us prior to March 20, 2009. Holders of the notes may
require us to repurchase some, or all, of the notes on March 15, 2009, 2014 and
2019. They could also require repurchase upon a change of control (as defined
in the indenture under which the Convertible Senior Notes were issued).    

   Under certain circumstances and
at the option of the holder, the  Convertible Senior Notes are convertible prior to the maturity date into cash and
shares of our common stock.  Certain of
these circumstances may result in classification of the Convertible Senior Notes as current on our balance
sheet.  These circumstances include:  

  1.                                          the
closing sale price of our common stock is over 120% of the conversion price,
which is currently $24.03 (with 120% being $28.84) for 20 trading days in the
period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the
fiscal quarter preceding the quarter in which the conversion occurs; 

  2.                                          if
we called the notes for redemption and the redemption has not occurred; 

  3.                                          the
occurrence of a five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price
of the notes was less than 95% of the closing sale price of our common stock on
such day multiplied by the conversion ratio; or 

  4.                                          the
occurrence of specified corporate transactions. 

  Should any of these
circumstances occur, the Convertible Senior Notes would be convertible at the
then current stock price times the conversion ratio of 41.6146. This amount
would be payable in cash equal to the principal amount of the notes, the par
value adjusted for dividends or other equity transactions, and the additional
amount payable in shares of our common stock. 
Currently, the maximum amount payable by us on conversion is $155 million
in cash plus approximately 6.5 million shares. This settlement method is
prescribed in the indenture and is not at the discretion of any party.  The shares issuable from such conversion are
considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.  

38     

As of the beginning of
the second fiscal quarter of 2006, the Convertible Senior Notes were
convertible as the stock price remained greater than 120% of the Conversion
Price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days
ending on October 31, 2005.  The notes
continued to be convertible as of July 31, 2006.  Because of the convertibility, the notes have
been classified as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of
July 31, 2006.  The determination of the
convertibility of the notes occurs quarterly. 
Depending upon the common stock price in the future, the notes may not
be convertible in future quarters and therefore would not be classified as
current on our consolidated balance sheet. 
Assuming a stock price of $57.27 (which was the closing stock price on
July 31, 2006), conversion of all the notes would result in our payment of $155
million in cash and 3.7 million shares of common stock.  

  In connection with our issuance of the Convertible
Senior Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which
we agreed to register the resale of the notes and underlying common stock by
the holders thereof.  Under the terms of
that registration rights agreement, we were required to file a shelf
registration statement for the notes and underlying common stock within an
agreed amount of time and thereafter to keep it current or useable for two-year
period ending in March 2006.  If we
failed to file or keep the shelf registration statement related to this debt
effective or usable in accordance with the registration rights agreement, then,
subject to certain exceptions, we were required to pay liquidated damages to
all holders of notes and all holders of our common stock issued upon conversion
of the notes.  The liquidated damages to
be paid were equal to an annual rate of 0.50% of the principal amount.  In November 2005, the shelf registration
statement became no longer effective and, accordingly, we began accruing and
paying liquidated damages at approximately $2,100 per day.  For the fiscal year end 2006, we have
recorded and paid approximately $310,000 of expense related to these liquidated
damages.  We are not required to register
the resale of the notes and underlying common stock after March 10, 2006 and
therefore, our liability for the payment of liquidated damages ended on that
date.  

  In addition to the notes, we
also have a five-year $85 million revolving loan agreement with a syndicate of
banks.  We entered into this facility in
February 2006.  The facility provides for
revolving loans and the issuance of letters of credit to Veritas DGC Inc. and
certain of its subsidiaries of up to $45 million in the United States, $15
million in Canada, $15 million in Singapore and $10 million in the United
Kingdom.  As of July 31, 2006, there were
no borrowings and $3.8 million of outstanding letters of credit, leaving $81.2
million available under the revolving loan facility.  This new credit facility replaced our
previous credit facility that consisted primarily of a revolving loan facility.  

   The facility is secured by
pledges of accounts receivable and the U.S. land data library, which, when
added together, have a carrying amount of approximately $242   million as of July 31, 2006.  The facility is also secured by certain intercompany
notes and stock in certain Veritas subsidiaries.  Veritas and certain of its subsidiaries have
also issued loan guarantees with respect to certain borrowings. Interest rates
on borrowings under the facility are selected by the borrower at the time of
any advance and the rates so selected may be either at LIBOR plus 1.00% or the
Base Rate (defined as the lesser of the applicable prime rate or the federal
funds rate).  These rates may be adjusted
upward depending upon our leverage ratio (calculated as a ratio of funded debt
versus EBITDA for the previous four quarters) to a maximum of LIBOR plus 1.50%
or the base rate plus 0.50%.  The loan
agreement and related documents contain customary financial covenants and
default provisions, including a limit on the amount of cash dividends.  These covenants contain certain financial
measurements as of quarter ending dates, and, as of our last fiscal quarter
ended July 31, 2006, we were in compliance with these covenants.  

  We also have various unsecured
lines of credit, with lending institutions that operate in geographic areas not
covered by the lending institutions in our credit facility, totaling $8.5
million that may be used exclusively for the issuance of letters of credit and
bank guarantees. As of July 31, 2006, $1.0 million in letters of credit were
outstanding under these lines.  

39     

4. Other Accrued Liabilities   

  Other accrued liabilities
include the following:  

5. Income Taxes    

  Income (loss)
before provision (benefit) for income taxes was earned in the following
jurisdictions:   

Certain income classified
as non-U.S. is also subject to U.S. income taxes.  Provision (benefit) for income taxes consists
of the following: 

A reconciliation between
the provision (benefit) for income taxes and the amount computed by applying
the U.S. statutory income tax rate to income (loss) before provision (benefit)
for income taxes is as follows:  

40     

The
increase in taxes resulting from non-U.S. activities includes non-U.S. earnings
taxed at other than the U.S. statutory rate, non-U.S. withholding taxes, U.S.
foreign tax credit or deductions, U.S. tax on non-U.S. branch operations or
foreign dividends, foreign tax contingencies and changes in valuation
allowances on foreign deferred taxes.    

  Subsequent
to July 31, 2004, we reached a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service on
the audit of certain prior year tax returns. This settlement favorably impacted
our 2004 income tax provision.  

  Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) result from the
effect of transactions that are recognized in different periods for financial
and tax reporting purposes. The primary components of our deferred income tax
assets (liabilities) are as follows:  

A valuation allowance, by
tax jurisdiction, is established when it is more likely than not that all or
some portion of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized. The
valuation allowances are periodically adjusted based upon the available
evidence. Adjustments are also made to recognize the expiration of NOL and tax
credit carryforwards, with equal and offsetting adjustments to the related
deferred income tax asset.   During fiscal 2005, we concluded that certain
valuation allowances were no longer necessary as available evidence, including
recent profits and estimates of projected future taxable income, supported a
more likely than not conclusion that the related deferred tax assets would be
realized.  As a result, the fiscal 2005
tax benefit included a non-cash benefit of $36.9 million.   

  The following schedule
sets forth the expiration dates of the non-U.S. NOL carryforwards as of July
31, 2006.  We had no U.S. NOL
carryforwards.  

41     

During fiscal 2004, we
utilized $8.1 million of U.S. NOL carryforwards, and during fiscal year 2005,
we utilized $3.9 million of U.S. NOL carryforwards.  

  Non-U.S. operations had
NOL carryforwards of $44.9 million at July 31, 2006, of which $31.2 million are
subject to valuation allowances. Of the $44.9 million of non-U.S. NOL
carryforwards, approximately $21.8 million relate to Brazilian operations and
$6.8 million relate to Australian operations, all of which have an indefinite
carryforward period, and are available to offset future income (subject to
certain limitations).    

  We had foreign tax credit
carryforwards of $7.8 million at July 31, 2006, of which $7.7 million are
subject to valuation allowances (due principally to certain U.S.
limitations).  Of the $7.8 million of
foreign tax credit carryforwards, approximately $7.2 million relate to U.S.
operations and expire periodically through fiscal 2016.       

  Upon a change in control
of the Company, certain limitations may result in the utilization of NOL and
foreign tax credit carryforwards following the change in control.   

  We consider the undistributed
earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested. We have not
provided deferred U.S. income tax on those earnings, as it is not practicable
to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable should these
earnings be remitted or deemed remitted as dividends or if we should sell our
stock in the subsidiaries. On October 22, 2004, the President signed the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ). The Act creates a temporary
incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad
by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends
from controlled foreign corporations.  In
connection with this temporary incentive, we repatriated $55 million from one
of our foreign subsidiaries during July 2006. 
We plan to use the net proceeds for qualifying U.S. expenditures.  The impact of the repatriation was
approximately $2.5 million increase to the fiscal 2006 tax provision. 

  On May 18, 2006, a new
tax reform measure was signed into law that substantially revises the Texas
state franchise tax beginning with our 2007 fiscal year.  This new legislation, which will be accounted
for as an income tax in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes, is not expected to have a material impact on our financial
statements.  

   6. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities   

  Total rentals of vessels,
equipment and office facilities charged to operations amounted to $109.4
million, $106.3 million and $83.2 million for the years ended July 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Minimum rentals payable
under operating leases, as of July 31, 2006, principally for office space and
vessel charters with remaining non-cancelable terms of at least one year are as
follows:  

42     

Data processing equipment
at July 31, 2006 included $3.7 million of capitalized leases.  Future minimum lease payments under
non-cancelable capital leases as of July 31, 2006 are as follows:  

We carry workers
compensation insurance that limits our liability on a per claim and per policy
year basis. Management has evaluated the adequacy of the accrual for the
liability for incurred but unreported workers compensation claims and has
determined that the ultimate resolution of any such claims would not have a
material adverse impact on our financial position. It is possible that the
actual liability for unreported workers compensation claims could exceed the
amounts already accrued. It is not possible to reasonably estimate the range of
possible loss.  

  We issue purchase orders
for the procurement of supplies and certain services. As of July 31, 2006, we
had $86.6 million of purchase orders outstanding.  

  In March 2006, we
entered into an agreement with a third party ship owner to charter a vessel
currently known as the Veritas Vision, which is currently being converted for
seismic operations.  The term of the charter is for a period of eight
years fixed, with options of up to 10 more years.  When delivered in the
first calendar quarter of 2007, the Veritas Vision will be the seventh seismic
vessel in our fleet.  In addition to the
charter, we expect to invest approximately $62 million to equip the vessel for
seismic operations.  Of this expected total, approximately $5 million was
spent during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 and the remainder is
expected to be spent during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007.  

  In September 2006,
we entered into an agreement to charter a seismic vessel, currently known as
the Viking Poseidon, which is currently expected to be in service commencing in
the second calendar quarter of 2007. 
This vessel will serve as a replacement for the Seisquest vessel, which
is under a charter that expires in May of 2007.  

  We have also
entered into a commitment to purchase approximately $26 million of recording
equipment to upgrade a vessel in our existing fleet.  Substantially all of this amount will be
spent during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007.  

   7. Employee Benefits   

    Employee Retirement Plans    

  We maintain a 401(k) plan
in which employees of our majority-owned domestic subsidiaries and certain
foreign subsidiaries are eligible to participate. Employees of foreign
subsidiaries who are covered under a foreign deferred compensation plan are not
eligible. Employees are permitted to make contributions of up to 50% of their
salary up to the statutory maximum dollar amount, which is $15,000 for calendar
2006. We contribute an amount equal to the employee s contribution up to a
maximum of 5% of the employee s salary or the statutory maximum. Our matching
contributions to the 401(k) plan were 
$2.4 million, $2.1 million and $1.8 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.  

  We maintain a plan, the
Canadian RRSP plan, in which employees, primarily in our Canadian subsidiaries,
are eligible to participate. Employees are permitted to make contributions of
up to 10% of their salary and we contribute an amount equal to 50% of the
employee s contribution up to a maximum of 5% of the employees  salary. An
employee may contribute an additional amount so that the total contribution to
the employee s account equals up to 18% of the employee s salary for the prior
year not to exceed approximately $15,800 for calendar year 2006. Our matching
contributions to this plan were $1.0 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million for
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

43  

Share Based Compensation Plans    

  As of August 1, 2005, we
adopted the Financial Accounting Standard Board Statement No. 123(R) (SFAS
123R) to account for share based compensation. 
SFAS 123R requires us to record the cost of stock options and other equity-based
compensation in our income statement based upon the estimated fair value of
those awards.  We elected to use the
modified prospective method for adoption, which requires compensation expense
to be recorded for all unvested stock options and other equity-based
compensation beginning in the first quarter of adoption.  Accordingly, prior periods have not been
restated to reflect share based compensation. 
For all unvested options outstanding as of August 1, 2005, the
previously measured but unrecognized compensation expense, based on the fair
value at the original grant date, will be recognized in the statement of
operations over the remaining vesting period. For equity-based compensation
granted subsequent to August 1, 2005, compensation expense, based on the fair
value on the date of grant, will be recognized in the statement of operations
over the vesting period.  For deferred
share units, it is our policy to determine the fair value of the units based on
our common stock price at the date of grant which is then expensed over the
applicable service period.  

  Prior to December 11,
2002, we had two employee nonqualified stock option plans under which options
were granted to officers and select employees. Options generally vested over
three years and were exercisable over a five to ten-year period from the date
of grant. The exercise price for each option was the fair market value of the
common stock on the grant date. Our Board of Directors authorized 5,954,550
shares of common stock to be issued under these option plans.  

  Prior to December 11,
2002, we also maintained a stock option plan for non-employee directors (the  Director
Plan ) under which options were granted to our non-employee directors. The
Director Plan provided that every year each eligible director was granted
options to purchase 5,000 shares of our common stock which vest over a period
of three years from the date of grant and are exercisable over five to ten
years from the date of grant. The exercise price for each option granted was
the fair market value at the date of grant. The Board of Directors authorized
600,000 shares of common stock to be issued under the Director Plan.  

  On December 11, 2002, we
adopted our current Share Incentive Plan that provides for the issuance to
directors, officers and select employees of: (1) nonqualified options to
purchase our common stock, (2) incentive options to purchase our common stock,
(3) share appreciation rights, (4) deferred share units, (5) restricted shares
and (6) performance shares. Options issued to employees under the Share
Incentive Plan have exercise prices equal to the fair market value at the date
of grant; have five-year lives and vest over three years. Options issued to
continuing non-employee directors under the Share Incentive Plan have exercise
prices equal to the fair market value at the date of grant, have five-year
lives and vest immediately.  In lieu of
options, non-employee directors have been granted the right to receive one
deferred share unit (DSU) for each option which would otherwise have been
granted.  These DSU s are vested
immediately and automatically convert to one share of our common stock when the
service as a director terminates.  As of
July 31, 2006, 1.3 million shares were reserved for issuance under this plan,
with no more than 0.3 million of those shares issuable in any form other than
stock options.  

  Information related to
share based compensation follows:  

Year Ended   

July 31, 2006   

(in millions of dollars,  
  expect per share data)   

Compensation costs recorded for all plans  

$  

6.0  

Tax benefit recognized in income statement for share based compensation
  arrangements  

1.7  

Impact of adopting SFAS 123R to:  

Net income  

4.3  

Basic earnings per share  

0.12  

Diluted earnings per share  

0.11  

Share based compensation
expense of approximately $1.1 million was recorded in fiscal 2006 related to
restricted stock that would have been recorded under the provisions of APB No.
25.  SFAS 123R requires tax benefits
relating to excess share based compensation deductions to be prospectively
presented in our statement of cash flows as financing cash inflows.  Accordingly, for the year ended July 31,
2006, we reported approximately $4.3 million of excess tax benefits from share
based compensation as cash provided by financing activities on our statement of
cash flows.  We have elected to adopt the
alternative transition method,   

44     

as described in
FASB Staff Position FAS123(R)-3, in determining our opening amount of excess
tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to the
adoption of SFAS 123R.  

  Our policy of meeting the
requirements upon exercise of stock options is to issue new shares.  

  As of July 31, 2006,
there was approximately $7.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements.  That cost is expected to be recognized on a
straight line basis over the weighted average remaining period which is
approximately 2 years.  

   Stock options   

  The fair value of each
option award granted after August 1, 2005 is estimated on the date of grant
using a lattice-based option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in
the following table. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities
from traded options on our stock and historical volatility of our stock. 
We use historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination
within the valuation model; separate groups of employees were reviewed and
shown to have similar historical exercise behavior and are considered together
for valuation purposes.  The expected term of options granted is derived
from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time
that options granted are expected to be outstanding.  The risk-free rate
for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S.
Treasury yield curve at the time of grant.  

The following table
provides additional information related to this stock option plan:  

The total intrinsic value
of options exercised during the year ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
$32.8 million, $10.3 million and $9.0 million, respectively.  The intrinsic value is the amount by which
the fair value of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price of an
option.  Cash received under all share-based
payment arrangements for the year ended July 31, 2006 was approximately $27.7
million.  The tax benefit realized for the tax deductions resulting from
option exercises of share-based payment arrangements was approximately $4.0
million for the year ended July 31, 2006.  

   Performance shares   

  During October
2005, certain participants were awarded rights to receive restricted shares of
the company in October 2006.  Restricted
shares will be granted, if earned, in October 2006.  The number of shares is based upon
established performance targets primarily relating to income before tax
provision.  The vesting of the issued
restricted shares will be two years after the performance targets are assessed
and therefore the service period is from the date of grant through July 31,
2008.  These shares were valued initially
at $31.94 per share for a total value of $2.5 million based upon the market
price of the shares at the award date and the expected outcome of the
performance targets.  Based on the
results for the year ended July 31, 2006 and that the   

45     

fiscal 2006
performance targets were exceeded, we accrued additional share based
compensation related to the performance shares. 
The shares were valued at $4.7 million at July 31, 2006, which will be
recorded as compensation expense over the applicable service period.  This compensation plan has been recorded as a
liability.  We recorded $1.3 million
compensation expense related to this plan during the 2006 fiscal year.  

   Restricted Stock   

  Restricted shares awarded
generally vest ratably over 3 years.  The
status of the restricted stock as of July 31, 2005 and the changes during the
fiscal year through July 31, 2006 are presented below:  

The weighted average
grant date fair value for the granted restricted stock was $32.23, $22.72 and
$11.98 per share for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  The total fair value of
shares vested during the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was as
follows (in thousands of dollars):  

Employee Stock Purchase Plan   

  On November 1, 1997, we
initiated an employee stock purchase plan. This plan was amended and restated
on December 11, 2002. The Board of Directors originally authorized 1,000,000
shares available for issuance under the plan and at July 31, 2006, 759,529
shares remained available for issuance. Participation is voluntary and
substantially all full-time employees meeting limited eligibility requirements
may participate. Contributions are made through payroll deductions and may not
be less than 1%   

46     

or more than 15%
of the participant s base pay as defined. The participant s option to purchase
common stock is deemed to be granted on the first day and exercised on the last
day of the fiscal quarter at a price that is the lower of 85% of the market
price on the first or last day of the fiscal quarter.  During fiscal 2005, 86,940 shares of common
stock were issued with a weighted average fair value at grant date of $18.41
per share.  During fiscal 2004, 244,232
shares of common stock were issued with a weighted average fair value at grant
date of $7.47 per share.  Information
related to the shares granted during fiscal 2006 is below.  The fair value was determined using the
Black-Scholes option valuation method using the assumptions shown below.  

Pension Plan    

  We maintain a
contributory defined benefit pension plan (the  Pension Plan ) for eligible
participating employees in the United Kingdom. Monthly contributions by
employees are equal to 7.0% of their salaries increased from 5.5% effective
December 1, 2005. We provide an additional contribution in an actuarially
determined amount necessary to fund future benefits to be provided under the
Pension Plan. Benefits provided are based upon 1/60 of the employee s final
pensionable salary (as defined in the Pension Plan) for each complete year of
service up to 2/3 of the employee s final pensionable salary and increase
annually in line with inflation subject to a maximum of 5% per annum. The
Pension Plan also provides for 50% of such actual or expected benefits to be
paid to a surviving spouse upon the death of a participant. Pension Plan assets
consist mainly of investments in marketable securities that are held and
managed by an independent trustee.  

  The following is a
reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation
and the fair value of plan assets measured at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005,
respectively:  

The funded status of the
Pension Plan is as follows:  

47     

Amounts included in the
consolidated balance sheet consist of:  

Our pension liability is
included in  Other non-current liabilities  on our balance sheet. The minimum
pension liability is recorded in  Accumulated comprehensive income   other  on
our balance sheet and, net of tax, was $9.4 million in fiscal 2006 and $8.4
million in fiscal 2005.  

  The net periodic pension
costs are as follows:  

The weighted average
assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation and the expected
long-term rate of return on assets are as follows:  

The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on
the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in
the projected benefit obligation. We have used a rate we believe is appropriate
for long-term investment in an equity-based portfolio.  The discount rate is determined by using the
return available from an index of AA-rated corporate non-callable bonds of
appropriate duration and currency  

  The weighted-average
asset allocations by asset category for the plan assets are as follow:  

In prior years, our
target weighted-average asset allocation for the plan assets was 100% in equity
securities.  In order to further manage
the risk of the expected return, during fiscal 2006, this allocation target was
changed to 65% in equity securities, 10% property and 25% in cash and bonds.  

48     

For fiscal 2007, we plan
to contribute approximately $1.4 million to the pension plan. We expect future
benefit payments of:  

8. Common
and Preferred Stock and Exchangeable Shares   

  We are authorized to issue 78.5 million shares of common
stock.  

  The Board of Directors, without any action by the
stockholders, may issue up to one million shares of preferred stock, par value
$.01, in one or more series and determine the voting rights, preferences as to
dividends, liquidation, conversion, and other rights of such stock. There are
no shares of preferred stock outstanding as of July 31, 2006.  

   On May 27, 1997, our Board of Directors declared a
distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock or
Exchangeable Stock to shareholders of record at the close of business on June
12, 1997 and designated 400,000 shares of the authorized preferred stock as a
class to be distributed under a shareholder rights agreement. Upon the
occurrence of certain events enumerated in the shareholder rights agreement,
each right entitles the registered holder to purchase a fraction of a share of
our preferred stock or the common stock of an acquiring company. The rights,
among other things, will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that
attempts to acquire our company. The rights expire on May 15, 2007 and may be
redeemed prior to that date.  In
September 2006, we amended our shareholder rights plan to provide that no rights
will be issued to our current shareholders in connection with our previously
announced plan to merge with  Compagnie G n rale de G ophysique ( CGG ).  

  In January 2006, it was
announced that Veritas Energy Services accelerated the automatic redemption date
of its exchangeable shares and its class A exchangeable shares, series 1 to May
16, 2006, and that Veritas DGC exercised its right to redeem both classes of
Veritas Energy Services exchangeable shares. On May 16, 2006, the closing date,
each exchangeable share of both classes then outstanding was exchanged for one
share of Veritas DGC common stock. Following the redemption on May 16, Veritas
DGC owned all of the issued and outstanding shares of Veritas Energy
Services.  Therefore, since May 16, 2006,
we have had only one class of stock outstanding.  

   9.
Gain on Involuntary Conversion of Assets   

  In January 2005, our
seismic vessel Veritas Viking experienced an engine failure while acquiring
data in the Gulf of Mexico and lost substantial amounts of overboard seismic
equipment. This seismic equipment was insured at its replacement cost. As a
result, insurance settlements for reimbursement of certain costs and to acquire
replacement equipment in excess of the book value of the equipment lost less
our deductible were recorded as a gain of $9.9 million during the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2005.  An
additional $2.0 million gain was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006
due to the timing of the insurance settlements, which were completed as of July
31, 2006.  The gain was included as a
change in accounts receivable in the consolidated statement of cash flows.  

49     

10.
Other (Income) Expense, Net   

  Other (income) expense,
net consists of the following:  

(1)    This subsidiary was consolidated
with our adoption of FIN 46R as of April 30, 2004. 

   11.
Net Income Per Common Share   

  Basic and diluted
earnings per common share are computed as follows:  

The shares issuable from
assumed conversion of notes for the year ended July 31, 2006 are based upon a stock
price of $57.27, which was the closing price of Veritas DGC s common stock at
July 31, 2006.  The shares issuable due
to performance shares agreement relates to the stock to be issued in relation
to meeting certain performance targets. 
The shares issuable from this program is also based upon a stock price
of $57.27.  

  The following options to
purchase common shares have been excluded from the computation assuming
dilution because the exercise prices of the options exceed the average market
price of the underlying common shares.  

50     

12. Assets and liabilities held for sale   

  As of
July 31, 2006 the land seismic acquisition business was considered held for
sale.  As of July 31, 2006, the balance
sheet date, it was expected that this business would be sold to a third party
with an expected closing to occur in the second fiscal quarter of fiscal
2007.  The land seismic acquisition
business met the criteria to be considered held for sale and was appropriately
classified on the balance sheet in accordance with FAS 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  
Further, approximately $2.7 million of depreciation expense was not
recorded to reflect the depreciation expense from the time the assets met the
criteria until the end of the fiscal year. 
The assets held for sale were included in the NASA and EAME
segments.  The land seismic acquisition
business was not considered a discontinued operation due to our continuing
involvement in the business because of anticipated ongoing contracts.  

  Subsequent
to July 31, 2006, these assets were no longer considered held for sale.  See further discussion in Note 15, Subsequent
Events.  

  The
geophysical vessel, the Searcher, and certain related equipment was classified
as held for sale as of July 31, 2006. 
This vessel was considered for selling due to the fact that it was an
older vessel and the costs to refurbish it would be significant.  In July 2006, a new vessel, the Veritas
Voyager was placed into service as a replacement to the Searcher.  Obtaining a new vessel is expected to reduce
vessel downtime and maintenance costs. 
Subsequent to July 31, 2006, the vessel was sold to a third party for
approximately $1 million and a gain of approximately $0.5 million is to be
recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. 
The Searcher was included as part of the Asia Pacific segment.  

  The
amounts reclassified as held for sale are as follows:  

13. Segment and Geographical Information   

  We have organized
the company into four reportable segments: North and South America (NASA);
Europe, Africa, Middle East and Commonwealth of Independent States (EAME); Asia
Pacific (APAC); and Veritas Hampson-Russell (VHR).  In NASA, EAME and APAC, we conduct
geophysical surveys on both a contract and a multi-client basis. When we
conduct surveys on a contract basis, we acquire and process data for a single
client who pays us to conduct the survey and owns the data we acquire. When we
conduct surveys on a multi-client basis, we acquire and process data for our
own account and license that data and associated products to multiple clients.  NASA, EAME and APAC offer a common suite of
these products and services to their customers, although each product or
service may be adapted to meet the needs of the local markets.  VHR licenses geophysical software and
provides geophysical reservoir consulting services.  The results of VHR s operations were
previously included in those of the NASA region; however, beginning in fiscal
2006, senior management began to review the results of VHR separately.  This segmentation of our company is
representative of the manner in which it is viewed and managed by our senior
managers and our Board of Directors.  The
information related to the years ended July 31, 2005 and 2004 have been
restated to reflect the new   

51     

segment
structure.  A reconciliation of the
reportable segments  results to those of the total enterprise is given below:  

Corporate includes
corporate overhead and certain non-recurring adjustments.  The assets within the Corporate segment
consist primarily of cash.  

  This table presents consolidated
revenue by geographic area based on the location of the use of the product or
service for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:  

52     

This table presents
property and equipment, net of depreciation, by geographic area based on the
location of the assets:  

In fiscal 2006, no
customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue. In fiscal 2005, a single,
large multi-national oil company represented 12% of our revenue. In fiscal
2004, no customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue.  

   14. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   

Quarterly per share
amounts may not total to annual per share amounts because weighted average
common shares for the quarter may vary from weighted average common shares for
the year.  

   15.
Subsequent Events   

  On September 5, 2006, we
announced that we terminated discussions with a third party relating to the
possible sale of the Company s land seismic acquisition business. Subsequent to
July 31, 2006, we have incurred costs of approximately $10 million in connection
with the possible sale of our land seismic acquisition business, which costs
include amounts paid in settlement of all claims by the third party buyers and
professional fees, including accounting and legal fees.  The depreciation expense of $2.7 million
previously not recorded related to these assets expected to be sold in fiscal
2006 will be recorded in fiscal 2007 as if the assets were not held for sale at
any time.  For further discussion on the
assets and liabilities held for sale, see Note 12 above.  

  On September 4, 2006, the
Company and CGG, a French soci t  anonyme, entered into an Agreement and Plan
of Merger, dated as of September 4, 2006 (the  Merger Agreement ), by and among
the Company, CGG, Volnay Acquisition Co. I, a Delaware corporation and wholly
owned subsidiary of CGG ( Merger Sub I ), and Volnay Acquisition Co. II, a
Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of CGG ( Merger Sub II ),
under which CGG has agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares
of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company ( Company Common
Stock ). Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, which was approved by the
Boards of Directors of both the Company and CGG, Merger Sub I will merge with
and into the Company with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation,
and immediately thereafter, the   

53     

Company will merge with and into
Merger Sub II with Merger Sub II continuing as the surviving corporation as a
wholly owned subsidiary of CGG.  

  Total consideration for the
Company Common Stock is fixed at approximately $1.5 billion in cash and
approximately 47 million American Depository Shares (the  ADSs ) of CGG, with
each ADS representing one-fifth of an ordinary share, nominal value  2.00 per
share, of CGG (each a  CGG Ordinary Share ). Under the terms of the Merger
Agreement, stockholders of the Company will have the right to elect to receive
cash or ADSs, subject to a proration if either cash or stock is oversubscribed.
The per share consideration is initially set at $75.00 in cash or 2.2501 ADSs
and is subject to adjustment upwards or downwards so that each share of Company
Common Stock receives consideration representing equal value.  This
adjustment, however, will not increase or decrease the total amount of cash or
the total number of ADSs to be issued in the transaction.  Based on the
closing price of CGG s ADSs on August 29, 2006, the stockholders of the
Company would receive, in the aggregate, consideration comprised of
approximately 51% ADSs and 49% cash.  

  Consummation of the
transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement is conditioned upon, among
other things, (1) approval by the stockholders of the Company and CGG, (2) the
receipt of all required regulatory approvals and (3) the effectiveness of the
registration statement on Form F-4 and the registration statement on Form F-6
relating to the ADSs to be issued in the merger.  In the event of a
termination of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, the Company or
CGG may be required to pay the other party certain termination fees as more
fully explained in the Merger Agreement filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Veritas DGC
Inc. s Form 8-K dated September 4, 2006.  

  Upon closing of the
transaction, several significant items would occur including, without
limitation, the following:  

                        All
of our outstanding stock options would fully vest and restrictions on most
outstanding restricted shares would vest. 

                        CGG
will assume our convertible debt, which would continue to be fully convertible,
and the holders of the debt would have the option of exercising their put right
to CGG. 

                        Any
outstanding borrowings and letters of credit under the credit facility would be
due immediately upon closing of the transaction. 

                        A
significant amount of severance compensation may be paid to executives of the
company, including the named executive officers. 

                        Other
material effects of the merger will be more fully discussed in the proxy
statement/prospectus on Form F-4 which CGG plans to file with the SEC and in
the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the proposed transaction, which will
be sent to each Veritas stockholder in connection with the meeting of Veritas
stockholders that we intend to call to vote to adopt the merger agreement. 

54     

VERITAS DGC INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   Financial Statement Schedule 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves   
Schedule II 
  (In thousands) 

55  

ITEM
9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure     

  Not Applicable.  

   ITEM
9A. Controls and Procedures     

   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

  We carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision of and with the participation of our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
as to the effectiveness, design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act
of 1934) as of July 31, 2006.  Our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and
operation of our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of July
31, 2006.  

   Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

  Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a   15(f) under the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934). An evaluation of the design and effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting, based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, was conducted
under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on the results of
this evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of July 31, 2006.  

  Our assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of July 31,
2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their audit report, which is included
herein.  

   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

  During the fiscal year
ended July 31, 2006, we did not make any change to our internal control over
financial reporting that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

   ITEM
9B. Other Information     

  Not Applicable  

   PART III     

   ITEM
10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant     

  Information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to the material to appear under the
heading  Election of Directors  in the Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.  

   ITEM
11. Executive Compensation     

  Information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to the material to appear under the
heading  Management  in the Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.  

56     

ITEM 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters     

   Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans   

  The following
table presents data related to all of our equity compensation plans for both
non-employee directors and employees as of July 31, 2006, and provides
information related to potential ownership dilution as of such date:  

   Equity
Compensation Plan Information 
as of July 31, 2006   

Equity Compensation Plan  
  Category 

Number of securities to 
  be issued upon exercise 
  of outstanding options   

Weighted-average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding options   

Number of securities remaining 
  available for future issuance under 
  equity compensation plans 
  (excluding securities to be issued 
  upon exercise of 
  outstanding options)   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by stockholders  

744,524  

(1)  

$  

18.23  

2,123,559  

(2)  

Equity compensation
  plans not approved by stockholders  

433,949  

(3)  

22.22  

0  

(4)  

(1)               Includes 683,779 options issued
under our Share Incentive Plan approved by stockholders in December 2002.
Includes 60,745 options issued before
December 9, 1998 under our 1992 Employee Non-qualified Stock Option Plan.
Stockholders approved the 1992 plan initially and in December 1997 approved
amendments increasing the number of shares, which could be issued pursuant to
options under the 1992 Employee Non-qualified Stock Option Plan. On December 9,
1998, our board of directors increased the number of options available under
the 1992 Employee Non-qualified Stock Option Plan without obtaining stockholder
approval. We have assumed that options issued before those dates were issued
under plans approved by stockholders and that options issued on or after those
dates were issued pursuant to plans not approved by stockholders. 

  (2)               Includes 759,529 shares
available for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan and 1,364,030
shares available for issuance under our Share Incentive Plan. Under our Share
Incentive Plan, our compensation committee is authorized to make awards to
participants in the form of stock options, restricted stock, deferred share
units, share appreciation rights or performance shares. The aggregate number of
shares available for award under the plan is currently 1,364,030, of which no
more than 334,895 shares may be awarded in any form other than stock options. 

  (3)               Includes 164,900 options issued on or after December 9, 1998 under
our 1992 Employee Non-qualified Stock Option Plan and 72,750 options issued on
or after December 9, 1997 under our 1992 Non-employee Director Non-qualified
Stock Option Plan. See note 1 above. Also includes options we assumed in
connection with our acquisitions of Enertec Resource Services Inc. in August
1999 and Reservoir Characterization Resource Consulting Inc. in February 2001.
The remaining 196,299 options were issued under our 2001 Key Employee
Non-qualified Stock Option Plan that was not approved by stockholders. 

  (4)               Effective
in December 2002, we are authorized to award equity compensation only in
accordance with our stockholder approved Share Incentive Plan. 

  On December 11, 2002, our
stockholders approved the adoption of our current Share Incentive Plan that
provides for the issuance to directors, officers and select employees: (1)
nonqualified options to purchase our common stock, (2) incentive options to
purchase our common stock, (3) share appreciation rights, (4) deferred share
units, (5) restricted shares and (6) performance shares. Effective upon the
adoption of Share Incentive Plan, we may not award options, restricted stock or
other equity compensation to any director, officer or employee under any other
plan, including those previously approved by stockholders.  

  Prior to December 11,
2002, we had two employee nonqualified stock option plans   our 1992 Employee
Non-qualified Stock Option Plan (the  1992 Plan ) and our 2001 Key Employee
Non-qualified Stock Option Plan (the  2001 Plan ). Prior to December 11, 2002,
we granted options to select employees, including our officers, under the 1992
Plan and to select employees, excluding our officers, under the 2001 Plan.
Stockholders approved the adoption of the 1992 Plan in December 1992 and also
approved all amendments to the plan through December 1997. In December 1998 and
March 1999, our board adopted amendments to the 1992 Plan that increased the
number of options available for grant by 1,204,550 and 550,000, respectively.
We did not seek stockholder approval of these amendments as such approval was
not then required by the terms of the plan, applicable law or stock exchange
requirements. In January 2001, we adopted our 2001 Plan, which allowed the
issuance of up to 2 million options. We did not seek stockholder approval of
the 2001 Plan as such approval was not then required by applicable law or stock
exchange requirements.  

  Options granted under the
1992 Plan and 2001 Plan generally vested over three years and were exercisable
over a five to ten-year period from the date of grant. The exercise price for
each option is the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on the  

57     

last trading day
prior to the grant date. As of July 31, 2006, a total of 301,395 options were
outstanding under the 1992 Plan and 196,299 were outstanding under our 2001
Plan. No further options may be issued under either plan after December 11,
2002.  

  Prior to December 11,
2002, we also maintained a stock option plan for non-employee directors (the  Director
Plan ) under which options were granted to our non-employee directors.
Stockholders approved the adoption of the Director Plan in December 1992 and
also approved all amendments to the plan through December 1994. In December
1997, our board adopted amendments to the Director Plan that increased the
number of options available for grant by 400,000. We did not seek stockholder
approval of these amendments as such approval was not then required by the
terms of the plan, applicable law or stock exchange requirements.  

  The Director Plan
provided that every year each eligible director was granted options to purchase
5,000 shares of our common stock which vest over a period of three years from
the date of grant and are exercisable over five to ten years from the date of
grant. The exercise price for each option is the closing price on the New York
Stock Exchange on the last trading day prior to the grant date. As of July 31,
2006, a total of 72,750 options were outstanding under the Director Plan. No
further options may be issued under the Director Plan after December 11, 2002.  

  Our current Share
Incentive Plan is described further in the Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements above.  

  Certain information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to the material to appear
under the headings  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management  in the Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.  

58     

ITEM
13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions     

  Information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to the material to appear under the
heading  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  in the Proxy Statement
for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation
14A.  

   ITEM
14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services     

  Information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to the material to appear under the
heading  Ratification of Selection of Independent Accountants  in the Proxy
Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.  

   PART IV     

   ITEM
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

(a)(1)  

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Management s Responsibilities for Financial Statements   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

Consolidated Statements of Operations and
  Comprehensive Income for the Three Years Ended July 31, 2006   

Consolidated
  Balance Sheets as of July 31, 2006 and 2005   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Three
  Years Ended July 31, 2006   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders 
  Equity for the Three Years Ended July 31, 2006   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Financial Statement Schedule - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves   

(a)(2)   

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

Financial Statement Schedule II   Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts and Reserves appears on page 55. All other financial statement
schedules are omitted for the reason that they are not required or are not
applicable, or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto.  

  Individual financial
statements of 50% or less-owned companies and joint ventures accounted for by
the equity method have been omitted because such 50% or less-owned companies
and joint ventures, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would
not constitute a significant subsidiary.  

   (a)(3)     See accompanying Exhibit Index.  

59     

SIGNATURES     

  Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, on
the 4th day of October, 2006.  

VERITAS DGC INC.  

By:  

/s/THIERRY PILENKO  

Thierry Pilenko  

(Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer)   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the indicated
capacities have signed this report below on the 4th day of October 2006.  

/s/ THIERRY PILENKO 

Chairman of the Board and
  Chief Executive Officer, Director  

Thierry Pilenko  

/s/ TIMOTHY L. WELLS  

President and Chief Operating
  Officer  

Timothy L. Wells  

/s/ MARK E. BALDWIN  

Executive Vice President,
  Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

Mark E. Baldwin  

/s/ DENNIS S. BALDWIN  

Vice President, Corporate
  Controller  

Dennis S. Baldwin  

/s/ LOREN K. CARROLL  

Director  

Loren K. Carroll  

/s/ CLAYTON P. CORMIER  

Director  

Clayton P. Cormier  

/s/ JAMES R. GIBBS  

Director  

James R. Gibbs  

/s/ JAN A. RASK  

Director  

Jan A. Rask  

/s/ YORAM SHOHAM  

Director  

Yoram Shoham  

/s/ DAVID F. WORK  

Director  

David F. Work  

Director  

Terence K. Young  

60     

EXHIBIT INDEX     

Exhibit No. 

Description   

2.1  

Agreement and Plan of
  Merger, dated as of September 4, 2006, between and among Veritas DGC Inc.,
  Compagnie G n rale de G ophysique, Volnay Acquisition Co. I and Volnay
  Acquisition Co. II. (Exhibit 2.1 to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 8-K dated September 4, 2006 is incorporated herein by
  reference.)  

3.1  

Restated Certificate of
  Incorporation with amendments of Veritas DGC Inc. dated August 30, 1996.
  (Exhibit 3.1 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September
  16, 1996 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

3.2  

Certificate of Ownership and
  Merger of New Digicon Inc. And Digicon Inc. (Exhibit 3-B to Digicon Inc. s
  Registration Statement No. 33-43873 dated November 12, 1991 is incorporated
  herein by reference.)  

3.3  

Certificate of Amendment to
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Veritas DGC Inc. dated September 30,
  1999 (Exhibit 3-D to Veritas DGC Inc. s For 10-K for the year ended July 31,
  1999 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

3.4  

Certificate of Amendment to
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Veritas DGC Inc. dated September 30,
  1999 (Exhibit 4.4 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Registration Statement No. 333-111997
  dated January 20, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

3.5  

Bylaws of Veritas DGC
  Inc. (including all amendments through June 16, 2006) (Exhibit 3.1 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
  June 19, 2006 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

4.1  

Specimen Veritas DGC Inc.
  Common Stock certificate (Exhibit 4-C to Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-K for the
  year ended July 31, 1996 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

4.2  

Rights Agreement between
  Veritas DGC Inc. and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C. dated as of May
  15, 1997. (Exhibit 4.1 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
  May 27, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

4.3  

Indenture dated March 3, 2004
  between Veritas DGC Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee.
  (Exhibit 4.2 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 3,
  2004 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

4.4  

Global note representing
  $125,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Convertible Senior
  Notes Due 2024 (Exhibit 4.3 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K
  dated March 3, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

4.5  

Registration Rights Agreement
  dated as of March 3, 2004 by and between Veritas DGC Inc. and Deutsche Bank
  Securities Inc. (Exhibit 4.1 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K
  dated March 3, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

4.6  

Form of Notice to
  Holders of Exchangeable Shares (Exhibit
  99.2 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 18,
  2006 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

4.7  

Amendment No. 1 to
  Rights Agreement between Veritas DGC Inc. and Mellon Shareholder Services,
  L.L.C. dated as of May 31, 2005 (Exhibit 4.2 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Amendment
  No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed May 31, 2005 is
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

+4.8  

Amendment No. 2 to
  Rights Agreement between Veritas DGC Inc. and Mellon Shareholder Services,
  L.L.C. dated as of September 4, 2006 (attached hereto as Exhibit 4.8 and
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

61     

9.1 

Voting and Exchange Trust
  Agreement dated August 30, 1996 among Digicon Inc., Veritas Energy Services
  Inc. and The R-M Trust Company. (Exhibit 9.1 of Veritas DGC Inc. s Current
  Report on Form 8-K dated September 16, 1996 is incorporated herein by
  reference.)  

9.2  

Voting and Exchange Trust
  Agreement dated September 30, 1999 among Veritas DGC Inc., Veritas Energy
  Services Inc. and CIBC Mellon Trust Company. (Exhibit 9-B to Veritas DGC
  Inc. s Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 1999 is incorporated herein by
  reference.)  

10.1  

Support Agreement dated August
  30, 1996 between Digicon Inc. and Veritas Energy Services Inc. (Exhibit 10.1
  of Veritas DGC Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 30, 1996 is
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.2  

Form of Restricted Stock Grant
  Agreement (Exhibit 10.2 to Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-K for the year ended
  July 31, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.).  

**10.3  

Key Contributor Incentive Plan
  as amended and restated March 3, 2003. (Exhibit 10.1 to Veritas DGC Inc. s
  Form 8-K dated March 3, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.4  

1992 Non-Employee Director
  Stock Option Plan as amended and restated March 7, 2000. (Exhibit 10-B to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2000 is
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.5  

1992 Employee Nonqualified
  Stock Option Plan as amended and restated March 7, 2000. (Exhibit 10-C to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2000 is
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.8  

Amended and Restated Employment
  Agreement between Veritas DGC Inc. and Stephen J. Ludlow. (Exhibit 10-C to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 2001 is
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.9  

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and
  Restated Employment Agreement between Veritas DGC Inc. and Stephen J. Ludlow.
  (Exhibit 10-D to Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October
  31, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.12  

Amended and Restated Employment
  Agreement between Veritas DGC Inc. and Timothy L. Wells. (Exhibit 10-K to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 2001 is
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.13  

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and
  Restated EmploymentAgreement between Veritas DGC Inc. and Timothy L. Wells.
  (Exhibit 10-L to Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October
  31, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.14  

Employment Agreement between
  Veritas DGC Inc. and Larry L. Worden. (Exhibit 10-M to Veritas DGC Inc. s
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 2001 is incorporated herein by
  reference.)  

**10.15  

Amendment No. 1 to Employment
  Agreement between Veritas DGC Inc. and Larry L. Worden. (Exhibit 10-N to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 2001 is
  incorporated herein by reference.)  

**10.16  

Deferred Compensation Plan
  effective January 1, 2001. (Exhibit 10-Q to Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for
  the quarter ended October 31, 2000 is incorporated by reference.)  

**10.17  

Rabbi Trust Agreement between
  Veritas DGC Inc. and Austin Trust Company relating to the Deferred
  Compensation Plan. (Exhibit 10-R to Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 10-Q for the
  quarter ended October 31, 2000 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

62     

63     

**10.34 

Letter Agreement dated October
  24, 2005 between Veritas DGC Inc. and Stephen J. Ludlow (Exhibit 10.3 to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 8-K dated October 28, 2005 is incorporated herein by
  reference.)  

**10.35  

Employment agreement between
  Veritas DGC Inc. and Dennis S. Baldwin dated November 7, 2005. (Exhibit 10.1
  to Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 8-K dated November 7, 2005 is incorporated herein
  by reference.)  

10.36  

Loan Agreement ($45,000,000
  U.S. Revolving Loan Facility, $15,000,000 Canadian Revolving Loan Facility,
  $15,000,000 Singapore Revolving Loan Facility, and $10,000,000 U.K. Revolving
  Loan Facility) dated as of February 6, 2006, among Veritas DGC Inc., as
  U.S. Borrower, Veritas Energy Services Inc. and Veritas Energy Services
  Partnership, as Canadian Borrowers, Veritas Geophysical (Asia Pacific) Pte.
  Ltd., as Singapore Borrower, Veritas DGC Limited, as U.K. Borrower, Wells
  Fargo Bank, National Association, as U.S. Agent and Lead Arranger, HSBC
  Canada, as Canadian Agent, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
  Limited, Singapore Branch, as Singapore Agent, HSBC Bank plc, as U.K. Agent,
  and the other lenders now or hereafter parties thereto (Exhibit 10.1 to
  Veritas DGC Inc. s Form 8-K dated February 6, 2006 is incorporated herein by
  reference.)  

**10.37  

Section 4.3(b), as
  amended June 16, 2006, of the Veritas DGC Inc. Global Management Incentive
  Plan. (Exhibit 10.1 to Veritas DGC Inc. s
  Form 8-K dated June 19, 2006 is incorporated herein by reference.)  

64     

+  Filed herewith  

  ** Management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement  

65  

<EX-4.8>
 2
 a06-20684_1ex4d8.htm
 EX-4

EXHIBIT
4.8   

   AMENDMENT
NO. 2 
TO 
RIGHTS AGREEMENT   

  AMENDMENT NO. 2 to
RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this  Amendment ) between Veritas DGC Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), and Mellon Investor Services LLC, previously known
as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C., a New Jersey limited liability
company, as Rights Agent (the  Rights Agent ) is effective this 4th day of
September, 2006.  

  W I T N E S S E T H:  

  WHEREAS, on
May 23, 1997, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into that one
certain Rights Agreement, which agreement was amended by that certain Amendment
No. 1 to Rights Agreement, effective May 31, 2005, between the Company and the
Rights Agent (collectively, the  Rights Agreement   

  WHEREAS, the
Company desires to further amend the Rights Agreement pursuant to Section 27
thereof; and  

  WHEREAS, the
Distribution Date (as defined in the Rights Agreement) has not yet occurred and
the Company has met all requirements for amendment of the Rights Agreement;  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in
consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements herein set forth,
the parties hereto agree as follows:  

  Section 1.                   Amendments . 
The Rights Agreement is amended as follows: 

  (a)              Section
1 (l) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: 

    Expiration Date  means
the earliest of (i) the Final Expiration Date, (ii) the time at which all
Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 or exchanged as provided in
Section 24 or (iii) immediately prior to the Merger I Effective Time (as
defined in the Merger Agreement).   

  (b)              The
following shall be added as Section 1 (n) and the existing Sections 1(n)
through (y) shall be re-numbered as Sections 1(o) through (z): 

    Merger Agreement  means
the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 4, 2006, by and among
the Company, Compagnie G n rale de G ophysique, a soci t  anonyme organized
under the laws of the Republic of France ( Parent ), Volnay Acquisition Co. I,
a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ( Merger Sub I )
and Volnay Acquisition Co. II, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned
subsidiary of Parent ( Merger Sub II ).   

(c)              The
following shall be added as Section 35: 

   Section 35.  Exception for Merger Agreement.  Notwithstanding any provision of this
Agreement to the contrary, neither an event described in Section 11(a)(ii), an
event described in sub-clauses (x), (y) or (z) of Section 13(a), a Distribution
Date, nor a Stock Acquisition Date shall be deemed to have occurred, none of
Parent, Merger Sub I, Merger Sub II or any of their Affiliates or Associates
shall be deemed to have become an Acquiring Person, and no holder of any Rights
shall be entitled to exercise such Rights under, or be entitled to any rights
pursuant to, any of Sections 3(c), 7(a), 7(b), 11(a) or 13 of this Agreement,
in any such case by reason of (a) the approval, execution or delivery of the
Merger Agreement (or any amendments thereto) or (b) the commencement or, prior
to termination of the Merger Agreement, the consummation of any of the
transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the Mergers (as
defined in the Merger Agreement).   

  Section 2.                   Effect
of this Amendment .  It is the intent of the parties that this
Amendment constitutes an amendment of the Rights Agreement as contemplated by
Section 27 thereof.  This Amendment shall be deemed effective as of
the date hereof as if executed by both parties hereto on such date.  Except as expressly provided in this
Amendment, the terms of the Rights Agreement remain in full force and effect. 

  Section 3.                   Counterparts . 
This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such
counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such
counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. 

  Section 4.                   Governing
Law .  This Amendment shall be deemed
to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Texas and for all purposes
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such state
applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state. 

  Section 5.                   Severability .  If any term, provision, covenant or
restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or
other authority to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the
terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in
full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. 

  Section 6.                   Descriptive
Headings .  The captions herein are
included for convenience of reference only, do not constitute a part of this
Amendment and shall be ignored in the construction and interpretation hereof. 

2     

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as
of the day and year first above written.  

VERITAS DGC INC.   

Attest:  

By:  

/s/ MARK E. BALDWIN  

Mark E. Baldwin  

Executive Vice
  President, Chief 
  Financial Officer and Treasurer  

By:  

/s/ LARRY L.
  WORDEN  

Larry L. Worden  

Vice President, General
  Counsel and 
  Secretary  

MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES 
  LLC   (previously known as  ChaseMellon 
  Shareholder Services, L.L.C.), AS
  RIGHTS 
  AGENT 

Attest:  

By:  

/s/ Ruth
  Brunette  

(Signature)  

By:  

/s/ Jane A.
  Marten  

(Signature)  

Ruth Brunette  

(Typed or
  Printed Name)  

Jane A. Marten  

(Printed
  or Typed Name)  

Assistant Vice
  President  

(Title)  

Assistant Vice
  President  

(Title)  

3  

</EX-4.8>

<EX-21>
 3
 a06-20684_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT 21   

   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   

  The following is a list
of all subsidiaries, wholly owned except where noted, owned by the Registrant
or one or more of its other subsidiaries at July 31, 2006:  

Corporate Name of Subsidiary 

State or Country of Incorporation   

Inupiat Geophysical LLC (45%
  owned)  

Alaska, U.S.A.  

ALITHEIA RESOURCES INC.  

Delaware, U.S.A.  

Veritas DGC Asia Pacific Ltd.  

Delaware, U.S.A.  

Veritas DGC Land Inc.  

Delaware, U.S.A.  

Veritas Geophysical Corporation  

Delaware, U.S.A.  

Veritas Geophysical (Mexico)
  LLC  

Delaware, U.S.A.  

Veritas Investments Inc.  

Delaware, U.S.A.  

Viking Maritime Inc.  

Delaware, U.S.A.  

Hampson Russell GP Inc.  

Alberta, Canada  

Hampson Russell Limited
  Partnership  

Alberta, Canada  

Time Seismic Exchange Ltd.  

Alberta, Canada  

Time Seismic Leasing Ltd.  

Alberta, Canada  

Veritas Energy Services Inc.  

Alberta, Canada  

Veritas Energy Services
  Partnership  

Alberta, Canada  

Veritas MacKenzie Delta Ltd.  

Alberta, Canada  

Veri-Illuq Geophysical Ltd.
  (49% owned)  

Northwest Territories, Canada  

Yamoria Geophysical, Ltd. (49%
  owned)  

Northwest Territories, Canada  

Veritas Geophysical (Canada)
  Corporation  

Nova Scotia, Canada  

Guardian Data Seismic Pty
  Limited  

New South Wales,
  Australia  

Veritas DGC Australia Pty.
  Ltd.  

Australia  

Veritas do Brasil Ltda.  

Brazil  

Veritas DGC (B) Sdn. Bhd.  

Brunei  

Veritas Geophysical III  

Cayman Islands  

Veritas Geophysical IV  

Cayman Islands  

Exploraciones Geofisicas
  Veritas Geophysical Chile Limitada  

Chile  

Veritas Geophysical (Chile)
  S.A.  

Chile  

Veritas Geophysical (France)
  SARL  

France  

Veritas DGC Land Guatemala
  S.A.  

Guatemala  

P.T. Veritas DGC Mega Pratama
  (80% owned)  

Indonesia  

Viking Global Offshore Limited  

Jersey, Channel Islands  

Veritas Caspian LLP (50%
  owned)  

Kazakhstan  

Veritas DGC (Malaysia) Sdn.
  Bhd. (70% owned)  

Malaysia  

Veritas Energy Services
  (Nigeria) Limited  

Nigeria  

Digicon (Nigeria) Ltd. (60%
  owned)  

Nigeria  

Veritas Geophysical (Nigeria)
  Limited (60% owned)  

Nigeria  

Veritas Geophysical Services
  (Norway) AS  

Norway  

Veritas DGC (Mexico) S. de
  R.L. de C.V.  

Mexico  

Veritas Servicios Geofisicos
  S. de R.L. de C.V.  

Mexico  

Veritas Servicios Technicos S.
  de R.L. de C.V.  

Mexico  

Veritas DGC Singapore Pte.
  Ltd.  

Singapore  

Veritas Geophysical (Asia
  Pacific) Pte. Ltd.  

Singapore  

Veritas DGC Limited  

United Kingdom  

Veritas Geophysical Limited  

United Kingdom  

Veritas Geoservices Ltd. SA  

Venezuela  

1  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 a06-20684_1ex23d1.htm
 EX-23.1

EXHIBIT 23  . 1  

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM    

  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (No.333-103489, 333-111997, 333-56438, 333-87223) of
Veritas DGC Inc. of our report dated October 4, 2006 relating to the financial
statements, financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in
this Form 10-K.  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Houston, Texas  

October 4, 2006  

1  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-20684_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31.1

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   RULE 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION 
CERTIFICATION OF VERITAS DGC INC.   

  I, Thierry Pilenko, the Chief Executive Officer,
certify that:  

  1.         I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Veritas DGC Inc.; 

  2.         Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.         Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.         The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have: 

  a)        Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b)       Designed
such internal control over financial reporting or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

  c)        Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)       Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.         The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

  a)        All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

  b)       Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

  October 4, 2006  

/s/ THIERRY PILENKO 

Thierry Pilenko 
  Chief Executive Officer  

1  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-20684_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2   

   RULE 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION 
CERTIFICATION OF VERITAS DGC INC.   

  I, Mark E. Baldwin, the
Chief Financial Officer, certify that:  

  1.         I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Veritas DGC Inc.; 

  2.         Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.         Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.         The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have: 

  a)        Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b)       Designed
such internal control over financial reporting or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

  c)        Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)       Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.         The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

  a)        All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

  b)       Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

  October 4, 2006  

/s/ MARK E.
  BALDWIN  

Mark E. Baldwin  

Chief Financial Officer  

1  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a06-20684_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32.1

EXHIBIT 32.1   

  SECTION 1350
CERTIFICATION  

  In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Veritas
DGC Inc. (the  Company ) for the year ended July 31, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Thierry
Pilenko, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to Section
1350 of Chapter 6 of Title 18 of the United States Code, that:  

  1.                  The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; 

  2.                  The information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

  October 4, 2006  

/s/ THIERRY PILENKO 

Thierry Pilenko  

Chief Executive Officer  

This certification is furnished solely pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed to be a part of the Report
of  filed  for any purpose whatsoever.  

1  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a06-20684_1ex32d2.htm
 EX-32.2

EXHIBIT 32.2   

  SECTION 1350
CERTIFICATION  

  In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Veritas
DGC Inc. (the  Company ) for the year ended July 31, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Mark E.
Baldwin, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to Section
1350 of Chapter 6 of Title 18 of the United States Code, that:  

  1.        The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; 

  2.        The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

  October 4, 2006  

/s/ MARK E. BALDWIN 

Mark E. Baldwin  

Chief Financial Officer  

This certification is
furnished solely pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
shall not be deemed to be a part of the Report of  filed  for any purpose
whatsoever.  

1  

</EX-32.2>

