<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_720005_0000720005-06-000219_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3297989</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>388928</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>768499</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1675499</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>81</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000720005-06-000219.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214144942
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000720005-06-000219
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000720005
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				591517485
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09109
		FILM NUMBER:		061276813

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		880 CARILLON PKWY
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 12749
		CITY:			ST PETERSBURG
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33716
		BUSINESS PHONE:		727-567-1000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 12749
		CITY:			ST. PETERSBURG
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33716

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	RJ FINANCIAL CORP/FL
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19870303

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QZRYqxVyc7WZ/UfldfxsNEeJV0aOkE7m/mEx36mys6UfW6SbVWizexR5nw8syuId
 OfZMEtNwza933CpyvPC+rg==

 0000720005-06-000219.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 k10093006.htm
 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. 2006 10-K

Raymond james Financial, Inc. 2006 10-K

UNITED
      STATES  

       SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       Washington,
      D.C. 20549  

For
      the
      fiscal year ended    September
      30, 2006  

OR

For
      the
      transition period from                  to

Commission
      file number    1-9109  

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Florida 

No.
                59-1517485 

(State
                or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S.
                Employer 

incorporation
                or organization) 

Identification
                No.) 

880
                Carillon Parkway, St. Petersburg, Florida 

33716 

(Address
                of principal executive offices) 

(Zip
                Code) 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
                of each class 

Name
                of each exchange on which registered 

Common
                Stock, $.01 Par Value 

New
                York Stock Exchange 

Securities
                registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

None 

(Title
                of class) 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes   x  
      No
  o 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes   o  
      No
  x 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to
      file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
      the
      past 90 days. Yes   x  
      No
  o 

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K.   o 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
      accelerated filer   x              Accelerated
      filer   o              Non-accelerated
      filer   o 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes   o 

      No
        x 

The
      aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
      as of March 31, 2006 was $2,731,191,559. 

The
      number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock as of December 5,
      2006 was 117,034,717. 

DOCUMENTS
                INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions
                of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders
                in
                connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held February
                15,
                2007 are incorporated by reference into Part
                III. 

RAYMOND
                JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.  

                 TABLE
                OF CONTENTS  

Page  

PART
                I   

Item
                1 

Business  

2 

Item
                1A 

Risk
                Factors  

11 

Item
                1B 

Unresolved
                Staff Comments  

12 

Item
                2 

Properties  

13 

Item
                3 

Legal
                Proceedings  

13 

Item
                4 

Submission
                of Matters to a Vote of Security
                Holders  

14 

PART
                II  

Item
                5 

Market
                for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder
                Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

14 

Item
                6 

Selected
                Financial Data  

15 

Item
                7 

Management's
                Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                and Results of Operations  

16 

Item
                7A 

Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
                Risk  

36 

Item
                8 

Financial
                Statements and Supplementary
                Data  

41 

Item
                9 

Changes
                in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
                and Financial Disclosure  

82 

Item
                9A 

Controls
                and Procedures  

82 

Item
                9B 

Other
                Information  

84 

PART
                III  

Item
                10 

Directors
                and Executive Officers of the
                Registrant  

84 

Item
                11 

Executive
                Compensation  

84 

Item
                12 

Security
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

84 

Item
                13 

Certain
                Relationships and Related
                Transactions  

84 

Item
                14 

Principal
                Accounting Fees and Services  

84 

PART
                IV  

Item
                15 

Exhibits,
                Financial Statement Schedules  

85 

Signatures  

87 

PART
      I   

       Table
      of Contents  

ITEM
      1.      BUSINESS    

Raymond
      James Financial, Inc. ( RJF ) is a holding company headquartered in Florida
      whose subsidiaries are engaged in various financial services businesses
      predominantly in the United States of America ( U.S. ) and Canada. Its principal
      subsidiaries include Raymond James   Associates, Inc. ( RJA ), Raymond James
      Financial Services, Inc. ( RJFS ), Raymond James Ltd. ("RJ Ltd."), Eagle Asset
      Management, Inc. ( Eagle ), Heritage Asset Management, Inc. ( Heritage ) and
      Raymond James Bank, FSB ( RJBank ). All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned
      by RJF. RJF and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively referred to as
      the
 Company .  

PRINCIPAL
      SUBSIDIARIES   

RJF's
      principal subsidiary, RJA, is the largest full service brokerage and investment
      firm headquartered in the state of Florida and one of the larger retail
      brokerage firms in North America. RJA is a self-clearing broker-dealer engaged
      in most aspects of securities distribution, trading, investment banking and
      asset management. RJA also offers financial planning services for individuals
      and provides clearing services for RJFS, other affiliated entities and several
      unaffiliated broker-dealers. RJA is a member of the New York Stock Exchange
      ( NYSE ), American Stock Exchange, and most regional exchanges in the U.S. It is
      also a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers ( NASD ) and
      Securities Investors Protection Corporation ( SIPC ).  

RJFS
      is
      an independent contractor broker-dealer subsidiary, and one of the largest
      independent contractor brokerage firms in the U.S. Financial Advisors affiliated
      with RJFS may offer their clients all products and services offered by RJA.
      RJFS
      also has four institutional sales offices in Europe. RJFS is a member of the
      NASD and SIPC, but not of any exchange, as it clears all of its business on
      a
      fully disclosed basis through RJA. 

RJ
      Ltd.
      is the Company's Canadian broker-dealer subsidiary which engages in both retail
      and institutional distribution and investment banking. RJ Ltd. is a member
      of
      the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Investment Dealers Association of Canada
      ("IDA"). Its U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary is a member of the NASD. 

Eagle
      is
      a registered investment advisor serving as the discretionary manager for
      individual and institutional equity and fixed income portfolios.  

Heritage
      acts as the manager of the Company's internally sponsored Heritage Family of
      Mutual Funds.  

RJBank
      provides traditional banking products and services to the clients of the
      Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries and to the general public. 

BUSINESS
      SEGMENTS   

The
      Company's business has seven segments: Private Client Group; Capital Markets;
      Asset Management; RJBank; Emerging Markets; Stock Loan/Borrow and certain
      investments combined in the "Other" segment. Financial information concerning
      RJF for each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005
      and September 24, 2004 is included in the consolidated financial statements
      and
      notes thereto. Such information is hereby incorporated by
      reference. 

PRIVATE
      CLIENT GROUP  

The
      Company provides securities transaction and financial planning services to
      approximately 1.5 million client accounts through the branch office systems
      of
      RJA, RJFS, RJ Ltd., and Raymond James Investment Services Limited ( RJIS"), an
      independent contractor subsidiary in the United Kingdom. The Company's Financial
      Advisors offer a broad range of investments and services, including both third
      party and proprietary products, and a range of financial planning services.
      In
      most cases, the Company charges commissions for sales of investment products
      to
      its Private Client Group clients based on an established commission schedule.
      Varying discounts may be given, generally based upon the client's level of
      business, the trade size, service level provided, and other relevant factors.
      An
      increasing number of clients are electing asset-based fee alternatives instead
      of the traditional commission structure; in fiscal year 2006 asset-based fees
      from such accounts represented 31% of the Private Client Group's commission
      and
      fees. 

The
      majority of the Company s U.S. Financial Advisors are also licensed to sell
      insurance and annuity products through its general insurance agency, Planning
      Corporation of America ( PCA ), a wholly owned subsidiary of RJA. Through the
      Financial Advisors of the Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries, PCA provides
      product and marketing support for a broad range of insurance products,
      principally fixed and variable annuities, life insurance, disability insurance
      and long-term care coverage.  

2 

The
      Company's Financial Advisors offer a number of professionally managed load
      mutual funds, as well as a selection of no-load funds. RJA maintains
      dealer-sales agreements with most major distributors of mutual fund shares
      sold
      through broker-dealers, including funds managed by Heritage. Commissions on
      such
      sales generally range from 0% to 5.75% of the dollar value of the transaction.
      The majority of mutual fund purchases include a front-end sales charge
      or occur at net asset value ( NAV ) in fee-based accounts. In addition,
      there is typically an annual charge in the form of a fund expense.  

No
      single
      client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total
      business. 

Private
      Client Group Securities Commission and Fees   

        For
      the Fiscal Years Ended:   

*
      Fixed
      income products include municipal, corporate, government agency and
      mortgage-backed bonds, preferred stocks, certificates of deposit, and unit
      investment trusts. 

Raymond
      James   Associates   

RJA
      employs 1,028 Financial Advisors in 170 retail branch offices concentrated
      in
      the Southern, Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States.  RJA's
      Financial Advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local
      management and administrative staffs.  The number of Financial Advisors per
      office ranges from one to 32. RJA Financial Advisors are employees and their
      compensation includes not only commission payments but also participation in
      the
      firm s benefit plans, including Profit Sharing and ESOP programs.  All
      investment program products are available to RJA Financial Advisors. 
Between 75 and 100 new Financial Advisors are trained each year at the Robert
      A.
      James National Training Center in St. Petersburg, Florida. 

Raymond
      James Financial Services  

RJFS
      supports 3,255 independent contractor Financial Advisors in providing products
      and services to their Private Client Group clients in 1,426 offices and 539
      satellite offices throughout all 50 states.   The
      number of Financial Advisors in RJFS offices ranges from one to 13. Independent
      contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly,
      are
      paid a larger percentage of commissions and fees. They are permitted to conduct
      other businesses unrelated to their RJFS activities such as offering fixed
      insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services, and
      accounting and tax services, among others.  

Through
      its Financial Institutions Division ( FID ), RJFS offers securities to customers
      of financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. FID consists
      of 503 Financial Advisors in 210 locations. RJFS also provides custodial,
      trading and other support services to unaffiliated independent investment
      advisors through its Investment Advisor Division ( IAD ). IAD s 62 registered
      investment advisory firms are able to conduct daily business online with RJFS.
      Services provided include trading, access to their clients  account information,
      and the services of the Asset Management segment. 

Raymond
      James Ltd.   

RJ
      Ltd.
      is a self-clearing broker-dealer with its own operations and information
      processing personnel. RJ Ltd. has 60 private client branches with 195 employee
      Financial Advisors and 117 independent Financial Advisors, all located in
      Canada. 

Raymond
      James Investment Services Limited  

The
      Company is a 75% shareholder of RJIS.   This  
      entity
      operates an independent contractor network in the United Kingdom, and currently
      has 36 branch locations and 71 Financial Advisors. 

3 

RJA
      - Operations  

RJA's
      operations personnel are responsible for the execution of orders, processing
      of
      securities transactions, custody of client securities, receipt, identification
      and delivery of funds and securities, compliance with certain regulatory and
      legal requirements and general office administration for most of the Company's
      securities brokerage operations. At September 30, 2006, RJA employed 721 persons
      in its operations areas who provide services primarily to the Private Client
      Group, but also support the Company's other segments.  

The
      Company's businesses are supported by, and are dependent upon, an extensive
      system of electronic data processing. These computer systems are largely
      developed and maintained by the 726 employees in the Company s information
      technology department, most of whom are located in St. Petersburg.  

The
      Company's operations were not adversely affected by the series of hurricanes
      that Florida experienced during 2005. However, the Company continues to enhance
      certain aspects of its business continuity plan to deal with the possible impact
      of future hurricanes or other events by expanding its operational and processing
      capabilities in Michigan. 

The
      Company has developed a business continuity plan that is designed to permit
      continued operation of critical business functions in the event of disruptions
      to the St. Petersburg facility; all mission critical business departments have
      developed operational plans for such disruptions, and the Company has a staff
      which devotes their full time to monitoring and facilitating those plans. In
      that connection, the Company maintains computer   capacity
      to support mission critical functions at its Michigan location, and conducts
      some of its daily operational activities from that site. Systems have been
      designed so that the Company can transfer all mission critical processing
      activities to Michigan, and personnel have been identified who are assigned
      responsibility for this role, including some personnel who will be required
        to
      temporarily relocate to Michigan to carry out these activities if necessary.

Clients'
      transactions in securities are effected on either a cash or margin basis. In
      margin transactions, the client pays a portion of the purchase price, and RJA
      makes a loan to the client for the balance, collateralized by the securities
      purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to
      clients on the amount borrowed to finance margin transactions. The financing
      of
      margin purchases is an important source of revenue to RJA, since the interest
      rate paid by the client on funds loaned by RJA exceeds RJA's cost of short-term
      funds. The interest rate charged to a client on a margin loan is based on
      current interest rates and on the size of the loan balance in the client's
      account. 

Typically,
      broker-dealers utilize bank borrowings and equity capital as the primary sources
      of funds to finance clients' margin account borrowings. RJA's primary source
      of
      funds to finance clients' margin account balances has been cash balances in
      brokerage clients' accounts (Client Interest Program), which are funds awaiting
      investment. In addition, pursuant to written agreements with clients,
      broker-dealers are permitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
      and NYSE rules to lend client securities in margin accounts to other financial
      institutions. SEC regulations, however, restrict the use of clients' funds
      derived from pledging and lending clients' securities, as well as funds awaiting
      investment, to the financing of margin account balances; to the extent not
      so
      used, such funds are required to be deposited in a special segregated account
      for the benefit of clients. The regulations also require broker-dealers, within
      designated periods of time, to obtain possession or control of, and to
      segregate, clients' fully paid and excess margin securities. 

CAPITAL
      MARKETS  

Capital  
      Markets
      activities primarily consist of equity and fixed income products and services.
        No
      single
      client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.

4 

Institutional
      Sales  

Institutional
      sales commissions account for a significant portion of this segment's revenue,
      which is fueled by a combination of general market activity and the Capital
      Markets group s ability to identify attractive investment opportunities and
      promote those opportunities. The Company's institutional clients are serviced
      by
      the RJA and RJ Ltd. Institutional Equity Departments, the RJA Fixed Income
      Department, the European offices of RJFS, and Raymond James Financial
      International Ltd, an institutional UK broker-dealer located in London. In
      providing securities brokerage services to its institutional clients, the
      Company charges its commissions on equity transactions based on trade size
      and
      the amount of business conducted annually with each institution. Fixed income
      commissions are based on trade size and the characteristics of the specific
      security involved. 

The
      109
      domestic and overseas professionals in RJA's Institutional Equity Sales and
      Sales Trading Departments maintain relationships with over 1,310 institutional
      clients, principally in North America and Europe. In addition to the Company's
      headquarters in St. Petersburg, FL, RJA has institutional equity sales offices
      in New York City, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, London and Geneva. RJ Ltd.
      has
      29 institutional equity sales and trading professionals servicing predominantly
      Canadian institutional investors from offices in Montreal, Toronto and
      Vancouver. RJFS has institutional equity sales offices in Brussels, Dusseldorf,
      Luxembourg and Paris. European offices also provide services to high net worth
      clients. 

RJA
      distributes to its institutional clients both taxable and tax-exempt fixed
      income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and
      mortgage-backed bonds. RJA carries inventory positions of taxable and tax-exempt
      securities in both the primary and secondary markets to facilitate its
      institutional sales activities. In addition to St. Petersburg, the Fixed Income
      Department maintains institutional sales and trading offices in New York City,
      Chicago and 17 other cities throughout the U.S. To assist institutional clients,
      the Fixed Income Research Group provides portfolio strategy analysis and
      municipal bond research.  

Equity
      Research Department  

The
      47
      domestic senior analysts in RJA's research department support the Company's
      institutional and retail sales efforts and publish research on approximately
      670
      companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. companies in specific
      industries including Technology, Telecommunications, Consumer, Financial
      Services, Business Services, Healthcare, Real Estate, Energy and Industrial
      Growth. Proprietary industry studies and company-specific research reports
      are
      made available to both institutional and individual clients. RJ Ltd. has
  an
      additional 19 analysts who publish research on approximately 207 companies
      primarily focused in the Energy, Energy Services, Mining, Forest Products,
      Biotechnology, Technology, Consumer and Industrial Products, REIT and Income
      Trust sectors. 

Equity
      Trading  

Trading
      equity securities in the over-the-counter ("OTC") market involves the purchase
      of securities from, and the sale of securities to, clients of the Company or
      other dealers who may be purchasing or   selling  
      securities for their own account or acting as agent for their clients. Profits
      and losses are derived from the spreads between bid and asked prices, as well
      as
      market trends for the individual securities during the holding period. RJA
      makes
      markets in approximately 330 common stocks in the OTC market. Similar to the
      equity research department, this operation serves to support both the Company's
      institutional and Private Client Group sales efforts. 

5 

Equity
      Investment Banking  

The
      60
      professionals of RJA's Investment Banking Group, located in St. Petersburg
      with
      additional offices in Atlanta, New York City, Nashville, Chicago, Princeton,
      Palo Alto, Dallas, and Houston, are involved in a variety of activities
      including public and private equity financing for corporate clients, and merger
      and acquisition advisory services. RJ Ltd.'s Investment Banking Group consists
      of 21 professionals located in Calgary, Toronto and Vancouver providing equity
      financing and financial advisory services to corporate clients. The Company's
      investment banking activities focus on the same industries as those followed
      by
      the Equity Research department. 

Syndicate
      Department  

The
      Syndicate Department coordinates the marketing, distribution, pricing and
      stabilization of   RJA's  
      lead and
      co-managed equity underwritings. In addition to RJA's managed and co-managed
      offerings, this department coordinates the firm's syndicate and selling group
      activities in transactions managed by other investment banking firms.

Fixed
      Income Trading  

RJA
      trades both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products. The 28 taxable and
      22
      tax-exempt RJA fixed income traders purchase and sell corporate (including
      high
      yield), municipal, government, government agency, and mortgage-backed bonds,
      asset backed securities, preferred stock and certificates of deposit from/to
      clients of the Company or other dealers who may be purchasing or selling
      securities for their own account or acting as an agent for their clients. RJA
      enters into future commitments such as forward contracts and  to be announced 
securities (e.g. securities having a stated coupon and original term to
      maturity, although the issuer and/or the specific pool of mortgage loans is
      not
      known at the time of the transaction). In addition, a subsidiary of RJF
      participates in the interest rate swaps market as a principal, both for
      economically hedging RJA fixed income inventory and in transactions with
      customers. 

Fixed
      Income Investment Banking  

Fixed
      income investment banking includes debt underwriting and public finance
      activities. The 56 professionals in the RJA Public Finance division operate
      out
      of 8 offices (located in St. Petersburg, Birmingham, New York City, Chicago,
      Atlanta, Nashville, Helena (Montana) and San Antonio). The Company acts as
      a
      financial advisor or underwriter to various municipal agencies or political
      subdivisions, housing developers and non-profit health care institutions.

RJA
      acts
      as an underwriter or selling group member for corporate bonds, mortgage-backed
      securities, agency bonds, preferred stock and unit investment trusts. When
      underwriting new issue securities, RJA agrees to purchase the issue through
      a
      negotiated sale or submits a competitive bid. 

Partnership
      Syndication Activities  

Raymond
      James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. ( RJTCF ) is the general partner or managing member
      in a number of limited partnerships and limited liability companies which invest
      in multi-family real estate entities that qualify for tax credits under Section
      42 of the Internal Revenue Code.  RJTCF has been an active participant in
      the tax credit program since its inception in 1986, and currently focuses on
      tax
      credit funds for institutional investors that invest in a portfolio of tax
      credit eligible multi-family apartments.  The investors  expected return on
      investment from these funds are primarily derived from tax credits and tax
      losses that investors can use to reduce their federal tax liability. During
      fiscal 2006, RJTCF invested over $276.8 million for large institutional
      investors in 78 real estate transactions for properties located throughout
      the
      U.S. From inception, RJTCF has raised over $1.3 billion in equity and has
      sponsored 43 tax credit funds, with investments in 1,068 tax credit apartment
      properties in 42 states. 

ASSET
      MANAGEMENT  

The
      Company's asset management segment includes proprietary asset management
      operations, internally sponsored mutual funds, several small proprietary hedge
      funds, non-affiliated private account portfolio management alternatives, and
      other fee based programs.   No
      single
      client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total
      business. 

6 

Eagle
      Asset Management, Inc.  

Eagle
      is
      a registered investment advisor with approximately $12.5 billion under
      management at September 30, 2006, including approximately $1.8 billion for
      the
      Heritage Family of Mutual Funds. Eagle offers a variety of equity and fixed
      income objectives managed by six portfolio management teams. Eagle's clients
      include individuals, pension and profit sharing plans, foundations, endowments,
      variable annuities and mutual fund portfolios. These accounts are managed on
      a
      discretionary basis in accordance with the investment objective(s) specified
      by
      the client. Eagle manages approximately $6.9 billion for institutional clients,
      including funds managed as a subadvisor to variable annuity accounts and mutual
      funds (including Heritage), and approximately $5.6 billion for private client
      accounts.  

Eagle's
      investment management fee for discretionary accounts generally ranges from
      .20%
      to 1.0% of asset balances per year depending upon the size and investment
  objective(s)  
      of the
      account. 

Heritage
      Asset Management, Inc.  

Heritage
      serves as investment advisor to the Heritage Family of Mutual Funds and certain
      short-term fixed income accounts. Heritage also serves as transfer agent for
      all
      of the funds and as fund accountant for all Heritage funds except the
      International Equity Fund. Heritage internally manages the largest of its
      portfolios, the Heritage Cash Trust-Money Market Fund, which has $5.1 billion
      in
      assets. Portfolio management services for the Diversified Growth Fund, Core
      Equity Fund and the Mid-Cap Stock Fund are subadvised by Eagle. Portfolio
      management for the Small Cap Stock Fund is subadvised by both Eagle and the
      Company's Awad Asset Management subsidiary ( Awad ). Unaffiliated advisors are
      utilized for the Municipal Money Market Fund, Capital Appreciation Trust, High
      Yield Bond Fund, Growth and Income Fund, and the International Equity
      Fund. 

Heritage
      also serves as an advisor to RJBank to make recommendations and monitor the
      Bank's liquid assets, investments in mortgages and mortgage related
      securities. 

Total
      assets under management at September 30, 2006 were $9.3 billion, of which
      approximately $6.3 billion were money market funds. 

Heritage
      Fund Distributors, Inc.  

Heritage
      Fund Distributors is a registered broker-dealer engaged in the distribution
      of
      the Heritage Family of Mutual Funds. 

Awad
      Asset Management, Inc.  

Awad
      is a
      registered investment advisor that primarily manages small cap equity
      portfolios. At September 30, 2006 Awad had approximately $1 billion under
      management, including approximately $193 million of the Heritage Small Cap
      Stock
      Fund. Awad's clients include individuals, pension and profit sharing plans,
      variable annuities, foundations, endowments, and mutual fund portfolios.
      Accounts are managed on a discretionary basis in accordance with the investment
      objective(s) specified by the client. Management fees generally range from
      .27%
      to 1.0% of asset balances annually depending upon the size and investment
      objective(s) of the account. 

Asset
      Management Services  

RJA's
      Asset Management Services ( AMS ) Department manages several investment advisory
      programs. The primary advisory services offered are the Raymond James Consulting
      Services program, which offers a variety of both affiliated and non-affiliated
      advisors, and the Eagle High Net Worth program. Both programs maintain an
      approved list of investment managers, provide asset allocation model portfolios,
      establish custodial facilities, monitor performance of client accounts, provide
      clients with accounting and other administrative services, and assist investment
      managers with certain trading management activities. AMS earns fees generally
      ranging from 0.40% to 0.85% of asset balances per annum, a portion of which
      is
      paid to the investment managers who direct the investment of the clients'
      accounts. In addition, AMS also offers the Freedom program, where an investment
      committee within AMS manages portfolios of mutual funds on a discretionary
      basis. At September 30, 2006, these three programs had approximately $13.0
      billion in assets under management, including approximately $2.0 billion managed
      by Heritage, Eagle and Awad. 

Additional
      advisory programs offered through AMS are Passport, Ambassador, Opportunity,
      and
      the Managed Investment Program. For these accounts, advisory services are
      provided by the Financial Advisors with AMS providing quarterly performance
      reporting and other accounting and administrative services. Fees are based
      on
      the individual account size and are also dependent on the type of securities
      in
      the accounts. As of September 30, 2006, these programs had approximately $18.4
      billion in assets. 

7 

In
      addition to the foregoing programs, AMS also administers fee-based programs
      for
      clients who have contracted for portfolio management services from nonaffiliated
      investment advisors that are not part of the Raymond James Consulting Services
      program. 

RJFS
      offers an advisory fee based program similar to Passport called IMPAC. As of
      September 30, 2006, IMPAC had $7.9 billion in assets serviced by RJFS Financial
      Advisors. 

Raymond
      James Trust Company  

       Raymond
      James Trust Company West  

Raymond
      James Trust Company and Raymond James Trust Company West provide personal trust
      services primarily to existing clients of the broker-dealer subsidiaries.
      Portfolio management of trust assets is often subcontracted to the asset
      management operations of the Company. These two subsidiaries had a combined
      total of approximately $1.3 billion in client assets at September 30, 2006,
      including $54 million in the donor-advised charity known as the Raymond James
      Charitable Endowment Fund. 

Proprietary
      Private Equity Funds  

The
      Company has sponsored two private equity funds to date: Raymond James Capital
      Partners, L.P., a merchant banking limited partnership; and Ballast Point
      Ventures, L.P., a venture capital limited partnership (the  Funds ). The
      Company, through wholly owned subsidiaries, earns management fees for services
      provided to the Funds and participates in profits or losses through both general
      and limited partnership interests. 

RAYMOND
      JAMES BANK, FSB  

RJBank
      is
      a federally chartered savings bank, regulated by the Office of Thrift
      Supervision, which provides residential, consumer and commercial loans, as
      well
      as FDIC-insured deposit accounts, to clients of the Company's broker-dealer
      subsidiaries and to the general public. RJBank also purchases residential whole
      loan packages and is active in bank participations and corporate loan
      syndications. RJBank generates revenue principally through the interest income
      earned on the transactions noted above, offset by the interest expense it incurs
      on client deposits and on its borrowings. 

RJBank
      operates from a single branch location adjacent to the Company s headquarters
      complex in St. Petersburg, Florida. Access to RJBank's products and services
      is
      available nationwide through the offices of its affiliated broker-dealer firms
      as well as through convenient telephonic and electronic banking services. As
      of
      September 30, 2006, RJBank had total assets of $3.1 billion, with 90% of the
      bank's $2.8 billion in deposits consisting of cash balances swept from the
      investment accounts of RJA and RJFS clients. These balances are held in the
      FDIC
      insured Raymond James Bank Deposit Program administered by RJA. Other than
      the
      foregoing, no single client accounts for a material percentage of the segment's
      total business. 

EMERGING
      MARKETS  

Raymond
      James International Holdings, Inc. ( RJIH ) currently has interests in joint
      ventures in Argentina, India, Turkey, and Uruguay. These joint ventures operate
      in securities brokerage, investment banking and asset management. In addition,
      RJIH owns Raymond James Global Securities, Inc. ( RJGS ), a broker-dealer which
      clears business predominantly for Latin American entities. RJGS is incorporated
      in the British Virgin Islands and utilizes the correspondent clearing services
      of RJA.   No
      single
      client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total
      business. 

STOCK
      LOAN/BORROW  

This
      activity involves the borrowing and lending of securities from and to other
      broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties, generally
      as an
      intermediary. The borrower of the securities puts up a cash deposit, commonly
      102% of the market value of the securities, on which interest is earned.
      Accordingly, the lender receives cash and pays interest. These cash deposits
      are
      adjusted daily to reflect changes in current market value. The net revenues
      of
      this operation are the interest spreads generated.   No
      single
      client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total
      business. 

OTHER  

This
      segment includes various investment and corporate activities of Raymond James
      Financial, Inc. 

8 

COMPETITION   

The
      Company is engaged in intensely competitive businesses. The Company competes
      with many larger, better capitalized providers of financial services, including
      other securities firms, some of which are affiliated with major financial
      services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other
      organizations. The Company also competes with a number of firms offering on-line
      financial services and discount brokerage services, usually with lower levels
      of
      service, to individual clients. The Company competes principally on the basis
      of
      quality of its associates, service, product selection, location and reputation
      in local markets. 

In
      the
      financial services industry, there is significant competition for qualified
      associates. The Company's ability to compete effectively in its businesses
      is
      substantially dependent on its continuing ability to attract, retain, and
      motivate qualified associates, including successful Financial Advisors,
      investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other
      revenue-producing or specialized personnel. 

REGULATION   

The
      following discussion sets forth some of the material elements of the regulatory
      framework applicable to the financial services industry and provides some
      specific information relevant to the Company. The regulatory framework is
      intended primarily for the protection of customers and the securities markets,
      depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection
      of
      creditors or shareholders. Under certain circumstances, these rules may limit
      the ability of the Company to make capital withdrawals from its broker-dealer
      subsidiaries. 

To
      the
      extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory
      provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular
      statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in applicable statutes,
      regulations or regulatory policy may have a material effect on the Company s
      business. 

Broker-dealers
      are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business,
      including: 

sales
                methods 

trading
                practices 

uses
                and safekeeping of clients' funds and
                securities 

capital
                structure and financial soundness 

record
                keeping 

the
                conduct of directors, officers and
                employees 

internal
                controls 

insurance
                requirements 

The
      financial services industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation
      under
      federal and state laws. The SEC is the federal agency charged with
      administration of the federal securities laws. Financial services firms are
      also
      subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which
      they conduct business. RJA and RJFS are currently registered as broker-dealers
      in all 50 states. In addition, financial services firms are subject to
      regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks
      and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have
      established offices. Various Company affiliates have offices in France, the
      United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Turkey, Argentina,
      India, British Virgin Islands, Canada and Uruguay. 

Much
      of
      the regulation of broker-dealers in the U.S. and Canada, however, has been
      delegated to self-regulatory organizations ("SROs"), principally the NASD,
      the
      NYSE and other securities exchanges. These SROs adopt and amend rules (which
      are
      subject to approval by the SEC) for governing the industry and conduct periodic
      examinations of member broker-dealers. 

9 

The
      SEC,
      SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings
      that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer,
      its officers or employees. Such administrative proceedings, whether or not
      resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and can
      have
      an adverse impact on the reputation of a broker-dealer. 

The
      Company's U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are required by federal law to belong
      to SIPC. When the SIPC fund falls below a certain amount, members are required
      to pay annual assessments of up to 1% of adjusted gross revenues. As a result
      of
      adequate fund levels, each of the Company's domestic broker-dealer subsidiaries
      was required to pay only the minimum annual assessment of $  150  
      in
      fiscal 2006. The SIPC fund provides protection for securities held in customer
      accounts up to $500,000 per customer, with a limitation of $100,000 on claims
      for cash balances. In December 2003, RJA joined with other major U.S. securities
      brokerage firms to form Customer Asset Protection Company ( CAPCO ), a licensed
      Vermont insurance company, to provide excess SIPC coverage. CAPCO provides
      account protection for the total net equity of client accounts of participating
      firms with no aggregate limit. CAPCO has received a financial strength rating
      of
      A+ from Standard and Poor s. These coverages do not protect against market
      fluctuations.  

The
      financial services industry in Canada is subject to comprehensive regulation
      under both federal and provincial laws. Securities commissions have been
      established in 13 provinces and territorial jurisdictions and are charged with
      the administration of securities laws. RJ Ltd. is currently registered in all
      Canadian jurisdictions. Securities dealers in Canada are also subject to
      regulation by SROs which are responsible for the enforcement of and conformity
      with securities legislation for their members and have been granted the powers
      to prescribe their own rules of conduct and financial requirements of members.
      RJ Ltd. is regulated by the securities commissions in the jurisdictions of
      registration as well as by the SROs, the IDA and Market Regulation Services
      Inc. 

RJ
      Ltd.
      is required by the IDA to belong to the Canadian Investors Protection Fund
      ("CIPF"), whose primary role is investor protection. The CIPF may charge member
      firms assessments based on revenues and risk premiums based on capital
      deficiencies. The CIPF provides protection for securities and cash held in
      client accounts up to CDN$1,000,000 per client with separate coverage of
      CDN$1,000,000 for certain types of accounts. This coverage does not protect
      against market fluctuations.  

See
      Note
      19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information
      on
      SEC and IDA regulations pertaining to broker-dealer regulatory minimum net
      capital requirements. 

The
      Company's investment advisory operations, including the Company-sponsored mutual
      funds, are also subject to extensive regulation. The Company's U.S. asset
      managers are registered as investment advisors with the SEC and are also
      required to make notice filings in certain states. Virtually all aspects of
      the
      asset management business are subject to various federal and state laws and
      regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit the
      asset management clients and generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies
      broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict an
      investment advisor from conducting its asset management business in the event
      that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions
      that
      may be imposed for a failure include the suspension of individual employees,
      limitations on the asset managers engaging in the asset management business
      for
      specified periods of time, the revocation of registrations, and other censures
      and fines. A regulatory proceeding, regardless of whether it results in a
      sanction, can require substantial expenditures and can have an adverse effect
      on
      the reputation of an asset manager. 

RJBank
      is
      subject to various regulatory capital requirements established by the federal
      banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate
      certain mandatory - and possibly additional discretionary - actions by
      regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on RJBank's
      financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory
      framework for prompt corrective action, RJBank must meet specific capital
      guidelines that involve quantitative measures of RJBank's assets, liabilities,
      and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting
      practices. RJBank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to
      qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings,
      and
      other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital
      adequacy require RJBank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and
      Tier
      I capital to risk-weighted assets (as defined in the regulations). See Note
      19
      of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information
      and capital analysis. 

The
      Company's two state-chartered trust companies are subject to regulation by
      the
      states in which they are chartered. These regulations focus on, among other
      things, the soundness of internal controls in place at the trust
      companies. 

10 

As
      a
      public company, the Company is subject to corporate governance requirements
      established by SEC and NYSE, as well as federal and state law. Under the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company is required to meet certain requirements
      regarding business dealings with members of the Board of Directors, the
      structure of its Audit Committee, and ethical standards for its senior financial
      officers, among other things. Under SEC and NYSE rules, the Company is required
      to comply with other standards of corporate governance, including having a
      majority of independent directors serve on its Board of Directors, and the
      establishment of independent audit, compensation and corporate governance
      committees. 

Under
      Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company is required to complete
      an
      assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting and to obtain
      reports from its independent auditors regarding their opinion of management's
      assessment of internal controls and their independent opinion regarding the
      Company's internal control over financial reporting. This requirement imposes
      additional costs on the Company, reflecting internal staff and management time,
      as well as additional audit fees and fees for outside service providers and
      consultants since the Act went into effect. 

OTHER
      INFORMATION MADE AVAILABLE BY THE COMPANY   

The
      Company's internet address is    www.raymondjames.com   .
      The
      Company makes available, free of charge, through links to the U.S. Securities
      and Exchange Commission website, the Company s annual reports on Form 10-K,
      quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments
      to
      those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Company s proxy statements. Investors
      can find this information under  About Our Company - Financial Results and SEC
      Filings . These reports are available through the Company s website as soon as
      reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material
      with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.  

Additionally,
      the Company makes available on its website under  About Our Company - Inside
      Raymond James - Corporate Governance , a number of its corporate governance
      documents. These include; the Corporate Governance Principles, the charters
      of
      the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance, Nominating and Compensation
      Committee of the Board of Directors, the Senior Financial     Officers 
      Code of Ethics and the Codes of Ethics for Employees and the Board of Directors.
      Printed copies of these documents will be furnished to any shareholder who
      requests them. The information on the Company's websites are not incorporated
      by
      reference into this report. 

Factors
      Affecting  Forward-Looking Statements    

From
      time
      to time, the Company may publish  forward-looking statements  within the meaning
      of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of
      the
      Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or make oral statements that
      constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may
      relate to such matters as anticipated financial performance, future revenues
      or
      earnings, business prospects, projected ventures, new products, anticipated
      market performance, and similar matters. The Private Securities Litigation
      Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In
      order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company cautions readers
      that a variety of factors could cause the Company's actual results to differ
      materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in
      the
      Company's forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, many of
      which are beyond the Company's control, are discussed in Item 1A,  Risk Factors 
in this report. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update
      or revise any forward-looking statements. 

        Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      1A.        RISK
      FACTORS    

Economic
      and Political Developments and Their Impact on Securities Markets Could
      Adversely Affect the Company s Business  

The
      Company is engaged in various financial services businesses. As such, the
      Company is directly affected by general economic and political conditions,
      changes in the rate of inflation and the related impact on securities markets,
      fluctuations in interest and currency rates, investor confidence, and changes
      in
      volume and price levels of the securities markets. Severe market fluctuations
      or
      weak economic conditions could reduce the Company s trading volume and net
      revenues and adversely affect its profitability.  

The
      Company Faces Intense Competition  

The
      Company is engaged in intensely competitive businesses. See the section entitled
       Competition  of Item 1 of this report for additional information about the
      Company s competitors. Competitive pressures experienced by the Company could
      have an adverse affect on its business, results of operations, financial
      condition and liquidity.  

11 

Regulatory
      and Legal Developments Could Adversely Affect the Company s
      Business  

The
      securities industry is subject to extensive regulation and broker-dealers are
      subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. See
      the
      section entitled  Regulation  of Item 1 of this report for additional
      information regarding the Company s regulatory environment and Item 3,  Legal
      Proceedings , for a discussion of the Company s legal matters. The Company could
      be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanctions, including
      revocation of its subsidiaries  registrations as investment advisors or
      broker-dealers, revocation of the licenses of its Financial Advisors, censures,
      fines, or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business,
      if
      it violates such laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could
      have
      a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of
      operations, and business prospects. In addition, the regulatory environment
      in
      which the Company operates frequently changes and has seen significant increased
      regulation in recent years. The Company may be adversely affected as a result
      of
      new or revised legislation or regulations, changes in federal, state or foreign
      tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws
      and regulations.  

The
      Company s Business Is Highly Dependent on Technology  

The
      Company s businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and
      communications systems, and its continued success will depend upon its ability
      to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of those systems and retain
      skilled information technology employees. Failure of those systems, which could
      result from events beyond the Company s control, could result in financial
      losses, liability to clients and damage to the Company s reputation.

The
      Company s Operations Could Be Adversely Affected By Serious
      Weather       Conditions  

The
      Company s principal operations are located in St. Petersburg, Florida. During
      2004 and 2005, there was a significant increase in hurricane activity on the
      Gulf Coast which has directly affected other parts of Florida. While the Company
      has a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be
      conducted from its Southfield, Michigan location (see Item 1,  Business  in this
      report), the Company s operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or
      other serious weather conditions that could affect processing of transactions
      and communications  .
      In
      addition, as a result of high levels of storm induced damage during these years
      in Florida and along the Gulf Coast, insurance coverage for wind and flood
      damage has become harder to obtain and substantially more expensive. As a
      consequence, the Company has been forced to pay more for the limited coverage
      it
      obtained and self-insure against these risks to a greater degree than in the
      past. 

The
      Company s Business is Dependent on Fees Generated from the Distribution of
      Financial Products  

A
      large
      portion of the Company s revenues are derived from fees generated from the
      distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities.
      Changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these
      products could directly affect the Company s revenues and profits. 

Other
      Risks  

See
      Item
      7A,  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  in this report
      regarding the Company s exposure to, and approaches to managing, market risk,
      interest rate risk, equity price risk, credit risk, operational risk and
      regulatory and legal risk. 

Table
      of
      Contents   

        ITEM
      1B.        UNRESOLVED
      STAFF COMMENTS    

Not
      applicable. 

12 

Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      2.        PROPERTIES    

The
      Company's headquarters is located on approximately 55 acres within the Carillon
      office park in St. Petersburg, Florida. The headquarters complex currently
      includes four main towers which encompass a total of 884,000 square feet of
      office space, the Raymond James Bank building, which is a 26,000-square-foot
      two-story building, and two five-story parking garages. At this location, the
      Company has the ability to add approximately 490,000 square feet of new office
      space. Raymond James also has 30,000 square feet of leased space near Carillon.
      The Company s facilities are used to some extent for current operations of all
      segments. The Company relocated its Detroit, Michigan operations to a newly
      renovated 84,000 square foot building on 14 acres in Southfield, Michigan.
      The
      Company owns that real estate as well as a 45,000 square foot building in
      Detroit that previously housed those operations. The Company intends to sell
      the
      Detroit building.  

The
      Company leases offices in various locations throughout the U.S. and in certain
      foreign countries. With the exception of a Company-owned RJA branch office
      building in Crystal River, FL, RJA branches are leased with various expiration
      dates through 2014. RJ Ltd. leases premises for main offices in Vancouver,
      Calgary, and Toronto and for branch offices throughout Canada. These leases
      have
      various expiration dates through 2013. RJ Ltd. does not own any land or
      buildings. See Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
      information regarding the Company's leases. 

Leases
      for branch offices of RJFS, the independent contractors of RJ Ltd. and RJIS
      are
      the responsibility of the respective independent contractor Financial
      Advisors. 

Table
      of
      Contents   

        ITEM
      3.        LEGAL
      PROCEEDINGS    

The
      Company is a defendant or co-defendant in various lawsuits and arbitrations
      incidental to its securities business.  Like others in the retail
      securities industry, the Company experienced a significant increase in the
      number of claims seeking recovery due to portfolio losses in the early 2000's.
      During the past year, the number of claims has declined to more historic levels.

As
      previously reported, RJF and RJFS were defendants in a series of lawsuits and
      arbitrations relating to an alleged mortgage lending program known as the
      "Premiere 72" program, that was administered by a company owned in part by
      two
      individuals who were registered as Financial Advisors with RJFS in Houston.
      In
      July 2005, RJFS paid approximately $24 million in a settlement with
      approximately 380 claimants in this litigation, representing approximately
      two-thirds of the outstanding claims. RJFS has settled with an additional 150
      claimants for a lump sum of $18 million. These settlements effectively
      extinguish the Company s liability with the exception of one remaining lawsuit
      in federal court involving one claimant family group. 

On
      September 27, 2005, the State of Utah filed a petition for Order of Censure,
      Suspension of License and Imposition of Fine against RJFS related to the alleged
      failure to supervise a former Financial Advisor. The Utah Securities Division
      asked the Division Director to enter an order censuring the Company, suspending
      its license in Utah for 30 days, ordering a fine of $100,000 and requiring
      the
      engagement of an independent consultant to review its supervisory structure
      and
      procedures. In September 2006, RJFS agreed without admitting or denying the
      State s findings, to a fine of $100,000. 

Raymond
      James Yatyrym Menkul Kyymetler A. S., ( RJY ), the Company s Turkish affiliate,
      was assessed for the year 2001 approximately US$6.8 million by the Turkish
      tax
      authorities. The authorities applied a significantly different methodology
      than
      in the prior year s audit. RJY is vigorously contesting most aspects of this
      assessment and has filed an appeal with the Turkish tax court. Audits of 2002
      through 2004 are anticipated and their outcome is unknown in light of the change
      in methodology and the pending litigation. The Company has made provision in
      its
      consolidated financial statements for its estimate of the reasonable potential
      exposure for this matter. As of September 30, 2006, RJY had total capital of
      approximately US$6.4 million, of which the Company owns approximately
      73%. 

The
      Company is contesting the allegations in this and other cases and believes
      that
      there are meritorious defenses in each of these lawsuits and arbitrations. 
In view of the number and diversity of claims against the Company, the number
      of
      jurisdictions in which litigation is pending and the inherent difficulty of
      predicting the outcome of litigation and other claims, the Company cannot state
      with certainty what the eventual outcome of pending litigation or other claims
      will be.  In the opinion of the Company's management, based on current
      available information, review with outside legal counsel, and consideration
      of
      amounts provided for in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
      with
      respect to these matters, ultimate resolution of these matters will not have
      a
      material adverse impact on the Company's financial position or results of
      operations.  However, resolution of one or more of these matters may have a
      material effect on the results of operations in any future period, depending
      upon the ultimate resolution of those matters and upon the level of income
      for
      such period.  

13 

Table of
      Contents   

ITEM
      4.        SUBMISSION
      OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS    

None. 

PART
      II   

Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      5.        MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND
      ISSUER    

                                            PURCHASES
      OF
      EQUITY SECURITIES   

The
      Company's common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol  RJF . At December
      5, 2006 there were approximately 14,000 holders of the Company's common
      stock  .
        The
      following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low trades
      for
      the common stock (as adjusted for the three-for-two stock split in March
      2006). 

See
      Quarterly Financial Information in Item 8 for the amount of the quarterly
      dividends paid. 

The
      Company expects to continue paying cash dividends. However, the payment and
      rate
      of dividends on the Company's common stock is subject to several factors
      including operating results, financial requirements of the Company, and the
      availability of funds from the Company's subsidiaries, including the
      broker-dealer subsidiaries, which may be subject to restrictions under the
      net
      capital rules of the SEC, NYSE, NASD and the IDA; and RJBank, which may be
      subject to restrictions by federal banking agencies. Such restrictions have
      never become applicable with respect to the Company's dividend payments. (See
      Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information
      on the capital restrictions placed on RJBank and the Company's broker-dealer
      subsidiaries).  

See
      Note
      15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding
      repurchased shares of the Company's common stock. 

14 

Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      6.        SELECTED
      FINANCIAL DATA    

** 

Includes
                loans payable related to investments by variable interest entities
                in real
                estate partnerships, which are non-recourse to the
                Company. 

*** 

Excludes
                non-vested shares. 

15 

Table of
      Contents   

ITEM
                7.   

MANAGEMENT'S
                DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                OPERATIONS   

Overview   

The
      following Management s Discussion and Analysis is intended to help the reader
      understand the results of operations and the financial condition of the Company.
      Management s Discussion and Analysis is provided as a supplement to, and should
      be read in conjunction with, the Company s consolidated financial statements and
      accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

The
      Company s results continue to be highly correlated to the direction of the U.S.
      equity markets and are subject to volatility due to changes in interest rates,
      valuation of financial instruments, economic and political trends and industry
      competition. An environment favorable to the Company s results is characterized
      by a stable political environment, low inflation, low unemployment,
      upward-trending financial markets, and strong corporate profitability, all
      of
      which have a positive influence on investor confidence. During fiscal 2006,
      long
      term inflation expectations remained low and the Federal Reserve continued
      its
      measured short-term interest rate increases with six 25 basis point rate
      increases during the first nine months of the year. The Dow Jones Industrial
      Average, S P 500 and NASDAQ indices rose 11%, 9% and 5%, respectively,
      during the fiscal year.  

16 

Results
      of Operations - Total Company   

The
      Company currently operates through the following seven business segments:
  Private
      Client Group; Capital Markets; Asset Management; RJBank; Emerging Markets;
      Stock
      Loan/Borrow and various corporate investments and expenses combined in the
      "Other" segment.  

The
      following table presents consolidated and segment financial information for
      the
      Company for the years indicated:  

17 

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      Total
      Company  

The
      Company had record annual revenues and earnings for the third consecutive year,
      with net revenues surpassing $2.3 billion. Non-interest expenses rose by 12%,
      contrasted to a 15% increase in net revenues. Net income exceeded $200 million
      for the first time in the Company's history, up 42% from the prior year. Driven
      by a 36% increase in net interest earnings (see table below) combined with
      solid
      increases in investment advisory fees (14%) and securities commissions and
      fees
      (10%), a modest (6%) increase in investment banking revenues and an increase
      in
      financial service fees (35%), all of the Company s four major segments had
      higher revenues and pretax income than in the prior year.  

Total
      firm net revenues increased 15%, while pretax profits after consideration of
      minority interest were up 38% over the prior year.  

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 24, 2004 -
      Total
      Company  

The
      Company had record results for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, with
      both total and net revenues surpassing $2 billion. Net income of over $150
      million was up 18% from the prior year. Driven by robust increases in investment
      banking revenues (41%) and net interest earnings (48% - see table below)
      combined with solid increases in investment advisory fees (17%) and securities
      commissions and fees (10%), all three of the Company s largest segments had
      significantly higher revenues than in the prior year. Capital Markets and Asset
      Management had even more impressive increases in pretax profits (34% and 47%,
      respectively). Private Client Group earnings were negatively impacted by legal
      expenses and settlements.  

Total
      firm net revenues increased 14%, while pretax profits after consideration
      of minority interest were up 21% over the prior year.  

18 

Net
      Interest Analysis   

19 

Over
      half
      of the increase in pretax income was made up of the increase in net interest,
      39% of which was generated by RJBank. This increase was a result of the
      substantial increase in customer deposits and corresponding loan balances at
      RJBank resulting from the Company s inception of a new cash sweep option for
      certain brokerage clients. The remainder of the increase in interest earnings
      was primarily related to increased cash balances in customer accounts at the
      broker-dealers, on which the Company earns a spread, and increased interest
      earnings on corporate cash balances.  

Results
      of Operations - Private Client Group   

The
      following table presents consolidated financial information for the Private
      Client Group segment for the years indicated:  

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      Private Client Group  

The
      Private Client Group's ( PCG ) results include a $130 million increase in
      commission and fee revenues. While commission and fee revenues increased in
      the
      PCG segment of all three broker-dealers, the increases were far more significant
      in RJA and RJ Ltd. where there has been an increase in the number of Financial
      Advisors due to successful recruiting. RJA added a net 65 employee Financial
      Advisors and increased the average production from $379,000 in fiscal 2005
      to
      $404,000 in fiscal 2006. In addition, average assets under management per RJA
      Financial Advisor has increased to an all time high of $58 million from $50
      million at September 2005. RJA has successfully focused on recruiting
      high-producing Financial Advisors and continued to benefit from industry
      consolidation. RJA commissions and fees increased 23%. RJ Ltd. added 20 employee
      Financial Advisors and 13 independent contractor Financial Advisors. RJ Ltd.
      commissions and fees increased 27%. The modest 5.7% increase in RJFS commissions
      and fees is primarily attributable to a $65.7 million, or 15.6%, increase in
      fee
      based business and mutual fund trails.  

PCG
      net
      interest earnings increased 36% over the prior fiscal year, a combined result
      of
      increased client margin balances (up 9%) and increased customer cash balances,
      on which a spread is earned. Net interest represented 65% of the segment's
      pretax earnings, down from 78% in fiscal 2005. 

20 

Financial
      Service Fees in the PCG segment increased $26.6 million, or 40% over the prior
      year. The increase included a one-time adjustment of approximately $10 million
      related to a change from cash to accrual accounting for IRA fees. The increase
      in other revenue of $17.2 million is predominantly made up of increased mutual
      fund networking fees and the newly introduced educational and marketing support
      fee from mutual fund companies. 

Commission
      expenses increased 2% more than commission revenue, the result of an increased
      number of independent contractors (who receive higher payouts) in RJ Ltd, the
      advances associated with recruiting at RJA and higher payout levels to more
      productive Financial Advisors. Admin and incentive compensation increased due
      to
      the increase in the segment s profits and an increased number of support staff
      related to the growing number of Financial Advisors in RJA and increased
      compliance staff in RJFS. Business development expenses increased as it includes
      advertising costs and increased travel and other expenses related to recruiting.
      Other expenses declined as prior years' expense included historically high
      legal
      costs and settlements related to the 2000 - 2002 market decline. 

PCG
      margins increased by more than 3% over the prior year, reaching 10.9%. The
      prior
      year was negatively impacted by the historically high legal costs and
      settlements, and the expense of the early stages of independent contractor
      business in the UK and at RJ Ltd. 

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 24, 2004 -
      Private Client Group  

The
      Private Client Group's results reflect an 11% increase in commission and fee
      revenue. Due to the continued process of upgrading the Company s Financial
      Advisor population, which encompassed the termination of lower producers, the
      net increase in the number of Financial Advisors was only 2%. The Company s
      branding campaign, which has increased the visibility of the firm name, and
      the
      promotion of the AdvisorChoice platform for Financial Advisors has helped to
      increase Financial Advisor interest in the Company. In particular, the employee
      firm (RJA) had strong recruiting results in the latter half of the year as
      the
      Company benefited from industry consolidation. Most of the increase in
      commission and fee revenue is attributable to the increased average production
      of Financial Advisors and was close to the Company's goal of a 10% increase
      per
      year. Further productivity gains may be expected, provided the market conditions
      remain favorable, as newly recruited Financial Advisors complete the transition
      of their accounts and existing Financial Advisors grow their
      businesses. 

While
      average margin balances increased 21% for the fiscal year, interest revenues
      within PCG increased 97% as a result of rising short-term interest rates, which
      also led to higher than normal spreads. Accordingly, PCG net interest earnings
      increased 37%, and represented nearly 78% of this segment's
      earnings. 

Commission
      expense grew ratably with commission and fee revenue. Increased administrative
      compensation costs include cost of living raises, a 6% increase in employee
      headcount and increased incentive compensation and benefit plan accruals related
      to increased corporate profitability. Communications and Information Processing
      expense increased as the Company continues its efforts to provide state of
      the
      art technology to its Financial Advisors. Business Development expense includes
      the marketing expenditures to promote the AdvisorChoice platform to prospective
      Financial Advisors and the Company's branding efforts - including a new
      television ad and increased air time. These efforts, combined with the stadium
      naming rights for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers football stadium, have increased
      the
      Company s name recognition nationwide. Business Development expense also
      includes increased travel expenses related to recruiting efforts and increased
      attendance at sales and education conferences. Other expense continues to be
      dominated by legal expenses and settlements.  

PCG
      margins, which were 7.6% in fiscal 2005, were negatively impacted by the losses
      in the early stage, independent contractor joint venture in the UK, relatively
      low margins in the private client group in RJ Ltd. (as they grow their
      independent contractor division) and historically high legal costs and
      settlements, which has had an estimated 1.5% to 2% impact on PCG margins in
      each
      of the past two years.  

21 

Results
      of Operations - Capital Markets   

The
      following table presents consolidated financial information for the Capital
      Markets segment for the years indicated:  

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      Capital Markets  

The
      Capital Markets segment s revenues and pretax profits increased just slightly
      from the prior year s record results. Commission revenues in the segment were
      flat, as the 37% decline in fixed income commissions were offset by the 13%
      increase in institutional equity commissions, the latter continuing to be fueled
      by an active new issue market. RJA equity market conditions remained strong,
      allowing RJA to complete 97 managed or co-managed domestic underwritings, just
      one short of the record 98 underwritings completed in fiscal 2005. RJ Ltd.
      completed a record 29 managed or co-managed underwritings, up nine from fiscal
      2005. Merger and acquisition fees increased modestly from the prior year's
      record level, offsetting the decline in private placement fees. Equity Capital
      Market's most active strategic business units in fiscal 2006 were Energy,
      Technology, Financial Services and Real Estate. 

The
      $16
      million increase in interest income, predominantly on RJA's fixed income
      inventories, was offset by an equal increase in interest expense to finance
      these inventories. Higher interest income and expenses were primarily the result
      of higher interest rates. 

RJTCF's
      revenues were up 19%, to $31.7 million, as RJTCF invested over $276.8 million
      for institutional investors in 78 real estate transactions compared to $250
      million in 93 deals in fiscal 2005. 

Non-interest
      expense increased 3% over the prior year, with the most significant increase
      in
      other expense. This increase was due to increases within the RJTCF variable
      interest entities, of which 99% is eliminated through minority
      interest. 

22 

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2004 -
      Capital Markets  

Institutional
      commissions were relatively flat, with equity commissions up 11% and fixed
      income commissions down 14%, as trends established in the prior year continued.
      Although the number of managed/co-managed corporate underwritings was nearly
      flat, underwriting fees were up 47% as a result of an increased average deal
      size and a greater number of lead managed deals. Merger and acquisition fees
      nearly doubled from fiscal 2004. Equity Capital Markets has nine strategic
      business units; Real Estate, Energy and Healthcare were the strongest performers
      during fiscal 2005. These record investment banking results contribute
      significantly to the firm's profits, as incremental revenues produce a high
      margin.  

RJTCF
      revenues were up 30% and contributed $5 million to the segment's pretax profits.
      RJTCF syndicates funds that invest in real estate partnerships that qualify
      for
      federal and state low income housing tax credits. During fiscal 2005, RJTCF
      invested over $250 million for institutional investors in 93 real estate
      transactions compared to $206 million in 80 deals in fiscal 2004.  

Interest
      expense, the expense associated   with  
      carrying
      the fixed income trading inventory, was up due to increased interest rates.
      Non-interest expense was up 11% - with 83% of that increase related to
      compensation. The remaining expenses were relatively flat. 

Results
      of Operations - Asset Management   

The
      following table presents consolidated financial information for the Asset
      Management segment for the years indicated:  

23 

The
      following table presents assets under management at the dates
      indicated: 

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      Asset
      Management  

Investment
      Advisory fees increased over $19 million, or 13%, on a nearly 16% increase
      in
      assets under management. Increases in assets under management were positively
      impacted by the recruiting of RJA Financial Advisors. New Financial Advisors
      brought significant assets into the Company's asset management programs,
      particularly Eagle and Raymond James Consulting Services ("RJCS"). New managed
      assets brought in by RJA Financial Advisors totaled $3.9 billion for fiscal
      2006, a 70% increase over $2.3 billion added in fiscal 2005. Eagle's total
      retail assets increased 19% over the prior year. Of Eagle's retail asset total,
      35% were introduced by Financial Advisors outside the Raymond James system.
      Account cancellations exceeded sales in Eagle's institutional accounts due
      to
      the loss of a few significant accounts and the closing of the Institutional
      Growth division in September. RJCS offers 40 independent investment advisors
      to
      the Company's clients. Assets managed within the program increased 20% over
      the
      prior year. The Company's managed mutual fund product (Freedom) continued to
      experience significant growth (105%) as this concept continues to be embraced
      by
      clients and Financial Advisors. Heritage Asset Management's non-money market
      funds increased 19% with 65% of the sales through broker-dealers outside of
      the
      Raymond James family. Heritage money market accounts increased 4% despite the
      movement of just under $1 billion to the RJBank sweep option during the
      year. 

Expenses
      in this segment increased $19 million (15%) with $9 million of that increase
      in
      compensation. The Compensation increase included increased salary expense,
      costs
      associated with closing Eagle's institutional growth division, and increased
      incentive compensation related to the 18% increase in pretax profits. The other
      notable increase in expense was a $7 million (16%) increase in other expense
      consisting predominantly of the fees paid to outside money managers in
      RJCS. 

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 24, 2004 -
      Asset
      Management  

Investment
      advisory fees increased roughly 17%. Due to the billing schedules this increase
      does not correlate directly to the increase in average assets under management.
      Approximately one-half of the Company s assets under management are billed based
      on beginning-of-quarter balances and slightly less than one-third are billed
      based on average daily balances. The remaining assets under management are
      predominantly billed based on end-of-quarter balances. The overall growth of
      managed equity programs was the aggregate result of strong net sales and market
      appreciation. Eagle Asset Management has several portfolio managers with strong
      performance records and the firm has been successful in winning a growing number
      of institutional accounts. Accordingly, assets managed for institutional
      accounts increased 34% over the prior year. Several of the same portfolio
      managers also manage portfolios for the Heritage Asset Management family of
      mutual funds. Assets in these funds, excluding the money market funds,
  increased  
      28% over
      the prior year.  

24 

In
      addition to Eagle portfolio managers, the asset management division of RJA
      offers 30 independent investment advisors to the Company's clients through
      its
      RJCS program. Assets managed within this program have increased 37% over the
      prior year. The Company has also seen significant growth (153%) in its managed
      mutual fund product (Freedom) as this concept is extremely popular with
      Financial Advisors and clients.  

Expense
      growth in this segment was a modest 9%, primarily reflecting increased personnel
      costs related to profit-based incentive compensation and increased business
      development expenses related to increased travel and proposal costs. Other
      expense is predominantly fees paid to outside money managers. With the capacity
      to increase assets under management significantly in certain disciplines without
      significant additional costs, there is a higher degree of leverage in this
      segment and management has a positive outlook on its prospects, provided market
      conditions do not deteriorate and performance results remain strong.

Results
      of Operations - RJBank   

The
      following table presents consolidated financial information for RJBank for
      the
      years indicated:  

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      RJBank  

Assets
      at
      RJBank grew a substantial $ 1.8 billion during the year. The increase was driven
      by a $1.7 billion increase in deposits, $1.3 billion of which were redirected
      from the Company s Heritage Cash Trust or customer brokerage accounts,
      representing the introduction of a new sweep program for certain brokerage
      accounts. This alternative offers clients a money market equivalent interest
      rate and FDIC insurance. The Company intends to expand this offering over the
      next several years, transferring an additional $2 to $4 billion. During the
      year, RJBank deployed $1.3 billion of the increased deposits into loans.
      Purchased residential loan pools increased $700 million and corporate loans
      increased $600 million. This growth, combined with increased rates, generated
      an
      increase in net interest income of nearly $18 million. Pretax income increased
      only $1.8 million, due to the $13.8 million provision for loan loss associated
      with the increase in loans outstanding. During periods of growth when new loans
      are originated or purchased, an allowance for loan losses is established for
      potential losses inherent in those new loans. Accordingly, a robust period
      of
      growth generally results in charges to earnings in that period, while the
      benefits of higher interest earnings are realized in later periods. 

25 

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 24, 2004 -
      RJBank  

Interest
      revenue and expense increased due to the combination of balance sheet growth
      and
      rising interest rates during the year. As a result, net interest income
      increased 32% to $23 million for fiscal 2005 vs. $17.5 million in fiscal 2004.
      The increase in loans receivable was predominantly in purchased residential
      mortgage loan pools, and therefore did not require significant increases in
      costs, with total non-interest expense actually declining 2%. This decrease
      is
      primarily the net impact of a decline in the provision for loan losses. The
      provision for loan losses is associated with the net increase in loans
      outstanding and the mix of such loans. 

RJBank
      has become, and is expected to grow into, a more significant segment within
      the
      Company during the next several years. RJF contributed an additional $80 million
      in equity capital to RJBank in fiscal 2005 allowing RJBank to begin to grow
      its
      asset base in preparation for offering an improved deposit alternative for
      certain brokerage accounts. The Company currently offers customers the option
      of
      sweeping their cash awaiting investment to the Heritage Cash Trust (the money
      market fund managed by Heritage Asset Management) or leaving the cash in the
      broker-dealer - in the Client Interest Program. The clients will receive an
      equivalent money market interest rate in the bank account and their accounts
      will have FDIC insurance.  

Results
      of Operations - Emerging Markets   

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      Emerging Markets  

This
      segment consists of the results of the Company s joint ventures in India,
      Argentina, Uruguay and Turkey. Securities commissions increased $9 million
      or
      31% over the prior year. The vast majority of this increase was in the Company s
      joint venture in Turkey.  

Other
      income includes investment banking revenues of $2.7 million, primarily from
      a
      single large Latin American underwriting fee. Investment Advisory fees declined
      as the Company generated $1 million less in asset management fees in India.
      The
      Company is negotiating the sale of its interest to its joint venture partners
      in
      India. 

The
      $20
      million increase in expense is made up predominantly of a $10 million increase
      in compensation related to increased revenues and increased other expense
      related to the accrual of an estimated tax liability in Turkey. 

26 

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 24, 2004 -
      Emerging Markets  

This
      segment consists of the results of the Company s joint ventures in India,
      Argentina, Turkey and Uruguay. Commission revenues increased by $6.5 million
      in
      Turkey, while the related compensation expense increased $3.7
      million. 

Results
      of Operations - Stock Loan/Borrow   

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      Stock
      Loan/Borrow  

The
      Company s stock borrow balances averaged $1,018,460 during fiscal year 2006 vs.
      $1,129,560 in fiscal 2005. As the Company s stock loan business is predominantly
      a matched book business, stock loan balances were similar. Average spreads
      increased from 0.9% in fiscal 2005 to 2.0% in 2006 largely due to rising
      interest rates, resulting in a 37% increase in net interest income and a 34%
      increase in pre- tax profits.  

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 24, 2004 -
      Stock
      Loan/Borrow  

The
      Company s stock borrow balances averaged $1,129,560 during fiscal year 2005 vs.
      $1,291,636 in fiscal 2004. As the Company s stock loan business is predominantly
      a matched book business, stock loan balances were similar. Average spreads
      increased from .4% in fiscal 2004 to .9% in 2005 largely due to rising interest
      rates, resulting in a 127% increase in net interest income. The business is
      well
      leveraged, resulting in a 179% increase in pre- tax profits.  

Results
      of Operations - Other   

The
      following table presents consolidated financial information for the Other
      segment for the years indicated:  

Year
      ended September 30, 2006 Compared with the Year ended September 30, 2005 -
      Other  

Revenue
      in the Other segment includes the $16.1 million pretax gain from the sale of
      the
      Company's NYSE and Montreal Exchange seats, the $9.3 million in gains recognized
      from the Company's interests in various private equity partnerships and
      approximately $3 million from other corporate investments.  

27 

Year
      ended September 30, 2005 Compared with the Year ended September 24, 2004 -
      Other  

The
      interest revenue in this segment represents the earnings on the portion of
      the
      Company s capital that is invested in interest-bearing instruments. The segment
      also includes the investment results from the private equity investments made
      at
      the corporate level, including 30 partnerships managed independently of Raymond
      James and two managed by Raymond James subsidiaries. Expenses are predominately
      executive incentive compensation expense, which increased due to improved
      corporate earnings. 

Statement
      of Financial Condition Analysis   

The
      Company s statement of financial condition consists primarily of cash and cash
      equivalents (a large portion of which are segregated for the benefit of
      customers), receivables and payables. The statement of financial condition
      is
      primarily liquid in nature, providing the Company with flexibility in financing
      its business. Total assets of $11.5 billion at September 30, 2006 were up
      approximately 38% over September 30, 2005. Most of this increase is due to
      the
      significant increases in brokerage client cash deposits, leading to a similar
      increase in segregated cash balances on the asset side, and growth of RJBank,
      with the increased loan balances being largely funded by deposits.   RJBank
      loan balances increased significantly as the Company continued to introduce
      an
      additional cash sweep offering to brokerage customers. The Company initiated
      the
      first phase of this option in July 2006 and plans to continue to expand the
      offering for the next few years, which will result in continued growth in RJBank
      balances. The other significant increase in assets was in securities purchased
      under agreements to resell.   The
      broker-dealer gross assets and liabilities, including trading inventory, stock
      loan/stock borrow, receivables and payables from/to brokers, dealers and
      clearing organizations and clients fluctuate with the Company's business levels
      and overall market conditions  . 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources   

Cash
      used
      in operating activities during fiscal 2006 was approximately $38.9 million,
      primarily attributable to the increase in segregated assets (directly correlated
      to the increase in brokerage client deposits), an increase in securities
      inventory levels, an increase in receivables from broker-dealers and clearing
      organizations, an increase in receivables from clients, and a decrease in
      payables due broker-dealers and clearing organizations. This was offset by
      an
      increase in payables due clients, an increase in payables associated with the
      Company s stock loan/borrowed business, and an increase in securities sold under
      agreements to repurchase. 

Investing
      activities used $2.0 billion in cash, which is primarily due to loans originated
      and purchased by RJBank, the purchases of available for sales securities, and
      purchases by RJBank of securities under agreements to resell. This was offset
      by
      RJBank s loan repayments and the maturation of available for sale
      securities. 

Financing
      activities provided $1.8 billion, the result of an increase in deposits at
      RJBank and cash provided from the exercise of stock options and employee stock
      purchases. This was partially offset by the repayments of borrowings, purchases
      of treasury stock and the payment of cash dividends.  

At
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 the Company had loans payable of
      approximately $141.6 million and $146 million, respectively. The balance at
      September 30, 2006 is comprised primarily of a $67.5 million loan for its
      home-office complex, a $1.1 million mortgage loan for the office of a foreign
      joint venture, $60 million in Federal Home Loan Bank advances (RJBank), and
      various short-term borrowings totaling approximately $13 million.    

In
      addition, the Company and its subsidiaries have the following lines of credit:
      RJF has a committed $200 million line of credit, RJA has uncommitted bank lines
      of credit aggregating $485.1 million with commercial banks, Raymond James Credit
      Corporation has a line of credit for $25 million, and RJ Ltd. has a CDN$40
      million uncommitted line of credit. At September 30, 2006, the Company had
      approximately $13 million in outstanding loans under these lines of credit.
      Additionally, RJBank had $781 million in credit available from the   FHLB
        at
      September 30, 2006. The Company s committed $200 million line of credit is
      subject to a 0.125% per annum facility fee. 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the Company's liabilities are comprised primarily of client
      payables of $4.6 billion at the broker-dealer subsidiaries and deposits of
      $2.8
      billion at RJBank, as well as deposits held on stock loaned transactions of
      $1.2
      billion. The Company primarily acts as an intermediary in stock borrowed/loan
      transactions. As a result, the liability associated with the stock loan
      transactions is related to the $1.1 billion receivable comprised of the
      Company's cash deposits for stock borrowed transactions. To meet its obligations
      to clients, the Company has approximately $3.8 billion in cash and assets
      segregated pursuant to federal regulations. The Company also has client
      brokerage receivables of $1.5 billion.  

28 

The
      Company will continue its implementation of a new cash sweep option to its
      clients through RJBank. This new cash sweep option will require substantial
      capital to be contributed to RJBank to meet regulatory requirements, and
      therefore may require the Company to infuse an estimated $200 to $300 million
      over the next several years for this purpose. 

The
      Company has committed a total of $42.6 million, in amounts ranging from $200,000
      to $2.0 million, to 40 different independent venture capital or private equity
      partnerships. As of September 30, 2006, the Company had invested $29.4 million
      of that amount and has received $24.8 million in distributions.   Additionally,
      the Company is the general partner in two internally sponsored private equity
      limited partnerships to which it has committed $14 million. Of that amount,
      the
      Company had invested $11.7 million and has received $5.5 million in
      distributions as of September 30, 2006. 

Management
      has been authorized by the Board of Directors to repurchase its common stock
      at
      their discretion for general corporate purposes. There is no formal stock
      repurchase plan at this time. In May 2004 the Board authorized the repurchase
      of
      up to $75 million of shares. As of September 30, 2006 the unused portion of
      this
      authorization was $67.6 million. 

The
      Company has committed to lend to or guarantee obligations of its wholly owned
      subsidiary, RJ Tax Credit Funds, Inc. ( RJTCF ), of up to $90 million upon
      request, subject to certain limitations as well as annual review and renewal.
      RJTCF borrows in order to invest in partnerships which purchase and develop
      properties qualifying for tax credits.   These
      investments in project partnerships are then sold to various tax credit funds,
      which have third party investors, and for which RJTCF serves as the managing
      member or general partner. RJTCF typically sells these investments within 90
      days of their acquisition, and the proceeds from the sales are used to repay
      RJTCF s borrowings. Additionally, RJTCF may make short-term loans or advances to
      project partnerships on behalf of the tax credit funds in which it serves as
      managing member or general partner. At September 30, 2006, cash funded to invest
      in either loans to or investments in project partnerships was $28.6 million.
      In
      addition, at September 30, 2006, RJTCF is committed to additional future
      fundings of $7.6 million related to project partnerships that have not yet
      been
      sold to various tax credit funds. 

The
      Company believes its existing assets, which are highly liquid in nature,
      together with funds generated from operations should provide adequate funds
      for
      continuing operations. 

The
      Company is the lessor in two leveraged commercial aircraft transactions with
      two
      major domestic airlines (Delta and Continental). The Company's ability to
      realize its expected return is dependent upon the airlines' ability to fulfill
      their lease obligations. In the event that the airlines default on their lease
      commitments and the Trustee for the debt holders is unable to re-lease or sell
      the planes with adequate terms, the Company would suffer a loss of some or
      all
      of its investment. Delta Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection on September
      14, 2005. Accordingly, the Company recorded a $6.5 million pretax charge in
      2005
      to fully reserve the balance of its investment in the leveraged lease of an
      aircraft to Delta. The Company also had taken a $4 million pretax charge in
      2004
      to partially reserve for this investment. No amount of these charges represents
      a cash expenditure; however, in the likely event of a material modification
      to
      the lease or foreclosure of the aircraft by the debt holders in fiscal 2007,
      certain tax payments of up to approximately $8.1 million could be accelerated.
      The expected tax payments are currently reflected on the statement of financial
      condition as a deferred tax liability and are not expected to result in a
      further charge to earnings. The Company also has a leveraged lease outstanding
      with Continental valued at $10.9 million as of Sept. 30, 2006. Although
      Continental remains current on its lease payments to the Company, the inability
      of Continental to make its lease payments, or the termination or modification
      of
      the lease through a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in the write-down of
      the
      Company's investment and the acceleration of certain income tax payments. The
      Company is monitoring this lessee for specific events or circumstances that
      would increase the likelihood of a default on Continental s obligations under
      this lease given the difficult economic environment for the airline industry.

The
      Company s Turkish affiliate was assessed for the year 2001 approximately US$6.8
      million by the Turkish tax authorities. This affiliate is vigorously contesting
      most aspects of this assessment and has filed an appeal with the Turkish tax
      court. Audits of 2002 through 2004 are anticipated and their outcome is unknown
      in light of the change in methodology from the prior year s audit and the
      pending litigation. As of September 30, 2006, this affiliate had total capital
      of approximately US$6.4 million, of which the Company owns approximately
      73%. 

29 

The
      Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to requirements of the SEC
      and
      the IDA relating to liquidity and capital standards. The domestic broker-dealer
      subsidiaries of the Company are subject to the requirements of the Uniform
      Net
      Capital Rule (Rule 15c3-1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. RJA,
      a
      member firm of the NYSE, is also subject to the rules of the NYSE, whose
      requirements are substantially the same. Rule 15c3-1 requires that aggregate
      indebtedness, as defined, not to exceed 15 times net capital, as defined. Rule
      15c3-1 also provides for an  alternative net capital requirement , which RJA,
      RJFS, and HFD have elected. It requires that minimum net capital, as defined,
      be
      equal to the greater of $250,000 or two percent of Aggregate Debit Items arising
      from client transactions. The NYSE may require a member firm to reduce its
      business if its net capital is less than four percent of Aggregate Debit Items
      and may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business and declaring cash
      dividends if its net capital is less than five percent of Aggregate Debit Items.
      RJA, RJFS, and HFD had excess net capital as of September 30, 2006.

RJ
      Ltd.
      is subject to the Minimum Capital Rule (By-Law No. 17 of the IDA) and the Early
      Warning System (By-Law No. 30 of the IDA). The Minimum Capital Rule requires
      that every member shall have and maintain at all times Risk Adjusted Capital
      greater than zero calculated in accordance with Form 1 (Joint Regulatory
      Financial Questionnaire and Report) and with such requirements as the Board
      of
      Directors of the IDA may from time to time prescribe. Insufficient Risk Adjusted
      Capital may result in suspension from membership in the stock exchanges or
      the
      IDA. The Early Warning System is designed to provide advance warning that a
      member firm is encountering financial difficulties. This system imposes certain
      sanctions on members who are designated in Early Warning Level 1 or Level 2
      according to its capital, profitability, liquidity position, frequency of
      designation or at the discretion of the IDA. Restrictions on business activities
      and capital transactions, early filing requirements, and mandated corrective
      measures are sanctions that may be imposed as part of the Early Warning System.
      RJ Ltd. was not in Early Warning Level 1 or Level 2 during fiscal 2006 or 2005.

RJBank
      is
      subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by the
      federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
      initiate certain mandatory - and possibly additional discretionary - actions
      by
      regulators. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework
      for
      prompt corrective action, RJBank must meet specific capital guidelines that
      involve quantitative measures of RJBank's assets, liabilities, and certain
      off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.
      RJBank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative
      judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other
      factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital
      adequacy require RJBank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and
      Tier
      I Capital (as defined in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as defined).
      Management believes, as of September 30, 2006, that the Bank meets all capital
      adequacy requirements to which it is subject. 

Critical
      Accounting Policies   

The
      Company s financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance
      with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The following is
      a
      summary of the Company s critical accounting policies. For a full description of
      these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements. The Company believes that of its significant accounting
      policies, those described below involve a high degree of judgment and
      complexity. These critical accounting policies require estimates and assumptions
      that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported
      in the consolidated financial statements. Due to their nature, estimates involve
      judgments based upon available information. Actual results or amounts could
      differ from estimates and the difference could have a material impact on the
      consolidated financial statements. Therefore, understanding these policies
      is
      important in understanding the reported results of operations and the financial
      position of the Company. 

30 

Valuation
      of Securities and Other Assets   

Trading
      securities  and  Available for sale securities  are reflected in the
      Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition at fair value or amounts that
      approximate fair value. In accordance with SFAS 115,  Accounting for Certain
      Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , unrealized gains and losses related
      to these financial instruments are reflected in net   earnings  
      or other
      comprehensive income, depending on the underlying purpose of the instrument.
      The
      following table presents the Company s trading and available for sale securities
      segregated into cash (i.e., non-derivative) trading instruments, derivative
      contracts, and available for sale securities: 

Cash
      Trading Instruments, Available for Sale Securities and Derivative
      Contracts  

When
      available, the Company uses prices from independent sources such as listed
      market prices, or broker or dealer price quotations to derive the fair value
      of
      the instruments. For investments in illiquid, privately held or other securities
      that do not have readily determinable fair values, the Company uses estimated
      fair values as determined by management.   Fair
      market value of OTC derivative contracts is estimated by using pricing models,
      based on the contractual terms and conditions, current market levels of interest
      rates and volatilities, and other factors.   The
      following table presents the carrying value of cash trading instruments,
      available for sale securities, and derivative contracts for which fair value
      is
      measured based on quoted prices or other independent sources versus those for
      which fair value is determined by management: 

Investment
      in Leveraged Leases  

The
      Company is the lessor in two leveraged commercial aircraft transactions with
      two
      major domestic airlines (Delta and Continental). The Company's ability to
      realize its expected return is dependent upon the airlines' ability to fulfill
      their lease obligations. In the event that the airlines default on their lease
      commitments and the Trustee for the debt holders is unable to re-lease or sell
      the planes with adequate terms, the Company would suffer a loss of some or
      all
      of its investment. Delta Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection on September
      14, 2005. Accordingly, the Company recorded a $6.5 million pretax charge in
      2005
      to fully reserve the balance of its investment in the leveraged lease of an
      aircraft to Delta. The Company also had taken a $4 million pretax charge in
      2004
      to partially reserve for this investment. No amount of these charges represents
      a cash expenditure; however, in the likely event of a material modification
      to
      the lease or foreclosure of the aircraft by the debt holders in fiscal 2007,
      certain tax payments of up to approximately $8.1 million could be accelerated.
      The expected tax payments are currently reflected on the statement of financial
      condition as a deferred tax liability and are not expected to result in a
      further charge to earnings.  

The
      Company also has a leveraged lease outstanding with Continental valued at $10.9
      million as of Sept. 30, 2006. The Company's equity investment represented 20%
      of
      the aggregate purchase price; the remaining 80% was funded by public debt issued
      in the form of equipment trust certificates. The residual value of the aircraft
      at the end of the lease term of approximately 17 years is projected to be 15%
      of
      the original cost. This lease expires in May 2014.  

31 

Although
      Continental remains current on its lease payments to the Company, the inability
      of Continental to make its lease payments, or the termination or modification
      of
      the lease through a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in the write-down of
      the
      Company's investment and the acceleration of certain income tax payments. The
      Company is monitoring this lessee for specific events or circumstances that
      would increase the likelihood of a default on Continental s obligations under
      this lease given the difficult economic environment for the airline industry.

Goodwill   

Goodwill
      is related to the acquisitions of Roney   Co. (now part of RJA) and Goepel
      McDermid, Inc. (now called Raymond James Ltd.). This goodwill, totaling $63
      million, was allocated to the reporting units within the Private Client
  Group  
      and
      Capital Markets segments pursuant to SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
      Intangible Assets . Goodwill represents the excess cost of a business
      acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. In accordance with
      SFAS No. 142, indefinite-life intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized.
      Rather they are subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or more often
      if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. This test involves
      assigning tangible assets and liabilities, identified intangible assets and
      goodwill to reporting units and comparing the fair value of each reporting
      unit
      to its carrying amount. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount,
      a
      further test is required to measure the amount of the impairment.  

When
      available, the Company uses recent, comparable transactions to estimate the
      fair
      value of the respective reporting units. The Company calculates an estimated
      fair value based on multiples of revenues, earnings, and book value of
      comparable transactions. However, when such comparable transactions are not
      available or have become outdated, the Company uses discounted cash flow
      scenarios to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. As of September
      30,
      2006, goodwill had been allocated to the Private Client Group of RJA, and both
      the Private Client Group and Capital Markets segments of RJ Ltd. As of the
      most
      recent impairment test, the Company determined that the carrying value of the
      goodwill for each reporting unit had not been impaired. However, changes in
      current circumstances or business conditions could result in an impairment
      of
      goodwill. As required, the Company will continue to perform impairment testing
      on an annual basis or when an event occurs or circumstances change that would
      more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its
      carrying amount. 

Reserves

The
      Company recognizes liabilities for contingencies when there is an exposure
      that,
      when fully analyzed, indicates it is both probable that a liability has been
      incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. When a range of
      probable loss can be estimated, the Company accrues the most likely amount;
      if
      not determinable, the Company accrues at least the minimum of the range of
      probable loss.  

The
      Company records reserves related to legal proceedings in "other payables".
      Such
      reserves are established and maintained in accordance with SFAS No. 5,
      "Accounting for Contingencies", and Financial Interpretation No. 14. The
      determination of these reserve amounts requires significant judgment on the
      part
      of management. Management considers many factors including, but not limited
      to:
      the amount of the claim; the amount of the loss in the client's account; the
      basis and validity of the claim; the possibility of wrongdoing on the part
      of an
      employee of the Company; previous results in similar cases; and legal precedents
      and case law. Each legal proceeding is reviewed with counsel in each accounting
      period and the reserve is adjusted as deemed appropriate by management. Lastly,
      each case is reviewed to determine if it is probable that insurance coverage
      will apply, in which case the reserve is reduced accordingly. Any change in
      the
      reserve amount is recorded in the consolidated financial statements and is
      recognized as a charge/credit to earnings in that period.  

The
      Company also records reserves or allowances for doubtful accounts related to
      client receivables and loans. Client receivables at the broker-dealers are
      generally collateralized by securities owned by the brokerage clients.
      Therefore, when a receivable is considered to be impaired, the amount of the
      impairment is generally measured based on the fair value of the securities
      acting as collateral, which is measured based on current prices from independent
      sources such as listed market prices or broker-dealer price quotations.

32 

Client
      loans at RJBank are generally collateralized by real estate or other property.
      RJBank provides for both an allowance for losses in   accordance  
      with
      SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies , and a reserve for individually
      impaired loans in accordance with SFAS No. 114,  Accounting by a Creditor for
      Impairment of a Loan . The calculation of the SFAS No. 5 allowance is subjective
      as management segregates the loan portfolio into different homogeneous classes
      and assigns each class an allowance percentage based on the perceived risk
      associated with that class of loans. During the fiscal year, RJBank re-evaluated
      and implemented changes to the loan loss reserve methodology in conjunction
      with
      a revision to the corporate loan grading process. The new loan grading process
      was revised and expanded to provide more specific and detailed risk measurement
      across the corporate loan portfolio. The factors taken into consideration when
      assigning the reserve percentage to each reserve category include estimates
      of
      borrower default probabilities and collateral values; trends in delinquencies;
      volume and terms; changes in geographic distribution, lending policies, local,
      regional, and national economic conditions; concentrations of credit risk and
      past loss history. In addition, the Company provides for potential losses
      inherent in RJBank s unfunded lending commitments using the criteria above,
      further adjusted for an estimated probability of funding. For individual loans
      identified as impaired, RJBank measures impairment based on the present value
      of
      expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate,
      the
      loan's observable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the
      loan
      is collateral dependent. At September 30, 2006, the amortized cost of all RJBank
      loans was $2.3 billion and an allowance for loan losses of $18.7 million was
      recorded against that balance. The total allowance for loan losses, including
      $4
      million in reserves for off-balance sheet exposures maintained in Other
      Liabilities, is equal to 1% of the amortized cost of the loan portfolio.

The
      Company also makes loans or pays advances to Financial Advisors, primarily
      for
      recruiting and retention purposes. The Company provides for an allowance for
      doubtful accounts based on an evaluation of the Company s ability to collect
      such receivables. The Company s ongoing evaluation includes the review of
      specific accounts of Financial Advisors no longer associated with the Company
      and the Company s historical collection experience. At September 30, 2006 the
      receivable from Financial Advisors was $89.8 million, which is net of an
      allowance of $3.3 million for estimated uncollectibility. 

Income
      Taxes   

SFAS
      No.
      109,  Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and
      reporting standards for the effect of income taxes. The objectives of accounting
      for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable
      for
      the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax
      consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company s financial
      statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax
      consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company s financial
      statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future
      tax
      consequences could materially impact the Company s financial position, results
      of operations, or cash flows. 

Effects
      of recently issued accounting standards, not yet
      adopted   

In
      May
      2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
      Corrections  (SFAS 154), which replaces APB No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and
      FASB Statement No. 3,  Reporting Changes in Interim Financial Statements . The
      Statement changes the accounting for, and reporting of, a change in accounting
      principle. Statement 154 requires retrospective application to prior period s
      financial statements of voluntary changes in accounting principle and changes
      required by new accounting standards when the standard does not include specific
      transition provisions, unless it is impracticable to do so. Statement 154 is
      effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors beginning in the
      Company s fiscal year 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the impact on
      its financial reporting process of the adoption of SFAS 154. 

In
      June
      2005, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force
      ( EITF ) in Issue 04-5,  Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General
      Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When
      the
      Limited Partners Have Certain Rights  on the guidance on how general partners in
      a limited partnership should determine whether they control a limited
      partnership. This consensus is effective for general partners of all new limited
      partnerships formed, and for existing limited partnerships for which the
      partnership agreements are modified, subsequent to the date of the ratification
      of this consensus (June 29, 2005). The guidance in this issue is effective
      for
      general partners in all other limited partnerships no later than the beginning
      of the Company s fiscal year 2007. The Company adopted this EITF for
      partnerships created or modified after June 29, 2005, the impact of which was
      not material to its consolidated financial statements. The Company anticipates
      consolidating two additional partnerships, which were created prior to June
      29,
      2005, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. As of September 30, 2006,
      these partnerships had assets of approximately $44.3 million. 

33 

In
      February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid
      Financial Instruments." SFAS No. 155 is an amendment of SFAS No. 133 and SFAS
      No. 140. SFAS No. 155 permits companies to elect, on an instrument by instrument
      basis, to apply a fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument
      that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation.
      SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued
      after
      the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after September
      15,
      2006. The Company does not expect SFAS No. 155 to have a material impact on
      the
      consolidated financial statements of the Company.  

In
      March
      2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial
      Assets." SFAS No. 156 amends SFAS No. 140. SFAS No. 156 requires that all
      separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially
      measured at fair value. For subsequent measurements, SFAS No. 156 permits
      companies to choose between using an amortization method or a fair value
      measurement method for reporting purposes. SFAS No. 156 is effective as of
      the
      beginning of a company's first fiscal year that begins after September 15,
      2006.
      The Company does not expect SFAS No. 156 to have a material impact on the
      consolidated financial statements of the Company. 

In
      June
      2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
      Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
      taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS
      No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  FIN 48 establishes a recognition
      threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition
      and
      measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
      This interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification,
      interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and
      transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
      2006. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this
      interpretation will have on its consolidated financial statements. 

In
      July
      2006, the FASB issued Staff Position No. FAS 13-2,  Accounting for a Change or
      Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated
      by a Leveraged Lease Transaction ( FSP FAS 13-2 ). This FASB Staff Position
      addresses how a change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes
      generated by a leveraged lease transaction affects the accounting by a lessor
      for that lease. FSP FAS 13-2 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
      December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption
      of this staff position will have on its consolidated financial
      statements. 

In
      September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,
 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
      Misstatements in the Current Year Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108
      addresses how the effects of prior year uncorrected misstatements should be
      considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements.
      SAB 108 requires an entity to quantify misstatements using a balance sheet
      and
      income statement approach and to evaluate whether either approach results in
      quantifying an error that is material in light of relevant quantitative and
      qualitative factors. The guidance is effective for annual financial statements
      covering the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. The Company
      is
      currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on its financial
      reporting process. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
      No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair
      value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures
      about fair-value measurements required under other accounting pronouncements
      but
      does not change existing guidance as to whether or not an instrument is carried
      at fair value. SFAS No. 157 is effective as of the beginning of a company's
      first fiscal year that begins after November 17, 2007. The Company does not
      expect SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on the consolidated financial
      statements of the Company. 

Off
      Balance Sheet Arrangements   

Information
      concerning the Company's off balance sheet arrangements are included in Note
      20
      of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Such information is
      hereby incorporated by reference. 

34 

Contractual
      Obligations   

The
      Company has contractual obligations to make future payments in connection with
      its short and long-term debt,   non-cancelable
      lease  
      agreements, partnership investments, commitments to extend credit, and a naming
      rights agreement (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
      further information on the Company's commitments). The following table sets
      forth these contractual obligations by fiscal year (in 000's): 

(1) 

Loans
                which are non-recourse to the Company. See Notes 6 and 10 in the
                Notes to
                the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
                information. 

(2) 

The
                Company has committed a total of $42.6 million, in amounts ranging
                from
                $200,000 to $2.0 million, to 40 different independent venture capital
                or
                private equity partnerships. As of September 30, 2006, the Company
                had
                invested $29.4 million of that amount and has received $24.8 million
                in
                distributions. Additionally, the Company is the general partner in
                two
                internally sponsored private equity limited partnerships to which
                it has
                committed $14 million. Of that amount, the Company had invested $11.7
                million and has received $5.5 million in distributions as of September
                30,
                2006. Although the combined remaining balance of $20.1 million has
                been
                included in fiscal year 2007 above, the contributions to the partnerships
                may occur after that time and are dependent upon the timing of the
                capital
                calls by the general partners. 

(3) 

Because
                many commitments expire without being funded in whole or part, the
                contract amounts are not estimates of future cash
                flows. 

(4)   
              RJTCF is committed to additional future fundings
              related
              to real estate partnerships.  

Effects
      of Inflation   

The
      Company's assets are primarily liquid in nature and are not significantly
      affected by inflation. Management believes that the changes in replacement
        cost  
      of
      property and equipment are adequately insured and therefore would not materially
      affect operating results. However, the rate of inflation affects the Company's
      expenses, including employee compensation, communications and occupancy, which
      may not be readily recoverable through charges for services provided by the
      Company. 

35 

Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      7A.        QUANTITATIVE
      AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

RISK
      MANAGEMENT  

Risks
      are
      an inherent part of the Company's business and activities. Management of these
      risks is critical to the Company's fiscal soundness and profitability. Risk
      management at the Company is a multi-faceted process that requires
      communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. The
      Company's senior management takes an active role in the risk management process
      and requires specific administrative and business functions to assist in the
      identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. The
      principal risks involved in the Company's business activities are market,
      credit, operational, and regulatory and legal.  

Market
      Risk   

Market
      risk is the risk of loss to the Company resulting from changes in interest
      rates
      and equity prices. The Company has exposure to market risk primarily through
      its
      broker-dealer and banking operations. The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries,
      primarily RJA, trade tax exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an
      active market maker in approximately 330 over-the-counter equity securities.
      In
      connection with these activities, the Company maintains inventories in order
      to
      ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions.
      Additionally, the Company, primarily within its Canadian broker-dealer
      subsidiary, invests for its own proprietary equity investment
      account. 

The
      following table represents the fair value of trading inventories associated
      with
      the Company's broker-dealer client facilitation, market-making activities and
      proprietary trading activities.  

Changes
      in value of the Company's trading inventory may result from fluctuations in
      interest rates, credit ratings of the issuer, equity prices and the correlation
      among these factors. The Company manages its trading inventory by product type
      and has established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product
      type. The Company's primary method of controlling risk in its trading inventory
      is through the establishment and monitoring of limits on the dollar amount
      of
      securities positions that can be entered into and other risk-based limits;
      limits are established both for categories of securities (e.g., OTC equities,
      high yield securities, municipal bonds) and for individual traders. As of
      September 30, 2006 the absolute fixed income and equity inventory limits were
      $1,905,000,000 and $80,705,000, respectively. The Company's trading activities
      were well within these limits at September 30, 2006. Position limits in trading
      inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. Consolidated position and
      exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. Limit
      violations are carefully monitored. Management also monitors inventory levels
      and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and
      securities ratings. For derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, the Company
      monitors exposure in its derivatives subsidiary daily based on established
      limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate risk,
      spread, ratio and basis risk and volatility. These exposures are monitored
      both
      on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods.

36 

Interest
      Rate Risk  

The
      Company is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of maintaining trading
      inventories of fixed income instruments and actively manages this risk using
      hedging techniques that involve swaps, futures, and U.S. Treasury obligations.
      The Company monitors, on a daily basis, the Value-at-Risk ( VaR ) in its
      institutional Fixed Income trading portfolios (cash instruments and interest
      rate derivatives). VaR is an appropriate statistical technique for estimating
      the potential loss in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements
      over a specified time horizon with a suitable confidence level. 

To
      calculate VaR, the Company uses historical simulation. This approach assumes
      that historical changes in market conditions are representative of future
      changes. The simulation is based upon daily market data for the previous twelve
      months. VaR is reported at a 99% confidence level, based on a one-day time
      horizon. This means that the Company could expect to incur losses greater than
      those predicted by the VaR estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or
      about 2.5 times a year. During the fiscal year ended September 30 2006, the
      reported daily loss in the institutional Fixed Income trading portfolio twice
      exceeded the predicted VaR. This is consistent with the model and its
      business-as-usual assumptions. 

However,
      trading losses on a single day could exceed the reported VaR by significant
      amounts in unusually volatile markets and might accumulate over a longer time
      horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. Accordingly, management
      employs additional interest rate risk controls including position limits, a
      daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory,
      independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk, and by issuer
      ratings. 

The
      following tables set forth the high, low, and daily average VaR for the
      Company's overall institutional portfolio during the twelve months ended
      September 30, 2006, with the corresponding dollar value of the Company's
      portfolio. 

*     Portfolio
      value achieved on the day of the VAR calculation. 

The
      modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number
      of
      assumptions and approximations. While management believes that its assumptions
      and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology
      for
      estimating VaR, and different assumptions or approximations could produce
      materially different VaR estimates. As a result, VaR statistics are more
      reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than
      as
      a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms.  

Additional
      information is discussed under Derivative Financial Instruments in Note 11
      of
      the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

RJBank
      maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of mortgage, corporate
      and consumer loans, as well as mortgage-backed securities, securities purchased
      under resale agreements, and other investments. Those earning assets are funded
      in part by its obligations to clients, including demand deposits, money market
      accounts, savings accounts, and certificates of deposit; and FHLB advances.
      Based on the current earning asset portfolio of RJBank, market risk for RJBank
      is limited primarily to interest rate risk. RJBank analyzes interest rate risk
      based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest
      received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range
      of
      interest rate scenarios. The following table represents the carrying value
      of
      RJBank's assets and liabilities that are subject to market risk. This table
      does
      not include financial instruments with limited market risk exposure due to
      offsetting asset and liability positions, short holding periods or short periods
      of time until the interest rate resets. 

37 

As
      noted
      above, RJBank reviews interest rate risk based on net interest income and impact
      on RJBank's equity. One of the core objectives of RJBank's Asset/Liability
      Management Committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to
      changes in market interest rates. The Asset/Liability Management Committee
      uses
      several measures to monitor and limit RJBank's interest rate risk including
      scenario analysis, interest repricing gap analysis and limits, and net portfolio
      value limits. Model-based scenario analysis is used to monitor and report the
      interest rate risk positions, and analyze alternative strategies.  

Net
      interest income is the net amount of interest received less interest paid.
      This
      involves large volumes of contracts and transactions, and numerous different
      products. Simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the
      sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates.
      Assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these
      calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where
      the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled
      maturity. On the liability side, the re-pricing characteristics of deposits
      are
      based on estimates since the rates are not coupled to a specified market
      rate. 

The
      sensitivity of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated
      for
      a variety of scenarios. Assuming an immediate and lasting shift of 100 basis
      points in the term structure of interest rates, RJBank's sensitivity analysis
      indicates that an upward movement would decrease RJBank's net interest income
      by
      13.82% in the first year after the rate jump, whereas a downward shift of the
      same magnitude would increase RJBank's net interest income by 9.20%. These
      sensitivity figures are based on positions as of September 30, 2006, and are
      subject to certain simplifying assumptions, including that management takes
      no
      corrective action.  

Equity
      Price Risk  

The
      Company is exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets
      in
      equity securities and the investment activities of RJA and RJ Ltd. The U.S.
      broker-dealer activities are client-driven, with the objective of meeting
      clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk
      associated with carrying inventory. The Company attempts to reduce the risk
      of
      loss inherent in its inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security
      positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits.
      The
      Company's Canadian broker-dealer has a proprietary trading business with 27
      traders. The average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading during
      the
      year ended September 30, 2006 was CDN$7,111,436.  

Credit
      Risk   

The
      Company is engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose
      counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial
      institutions. The Company is exposed to risk that counterparties may not fulfill
      their obligations. The risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the
      counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. The Company manages this
      risk
      by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within
      each
      business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of
      financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding
      and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business
      through clearing organizations, which guarantee performance. 

38 

The
      Company's client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing
      of
      various transactions on behalf of its clients. Client activities are transacted
      on either a cash or margin basis. Credit exposure associated with the Company's
      Private Client Group consists primarily of customer margin accounts, which
      are
      monitored daily and are collateralized. When clients execute a purchase the
      Company is at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. If this
      occurs, the Company may have to liquidate the position at a loss. However,
      for
      most of the private client group purchase transactions, clients have available
      funds in the account before the trade is executed. The Company monitors exposure
      to industry sectors and individual securities and performs analysis on a regular
      basis in connection with its margin lending activities. The Company adjusts
      its
      margin requirements if it believes its risk exposure is not appropriate based
      on
      market conditions.  

In
      addition, RJBank offers a variety of loan products including residential
      mortgage, commercial real estate, and consumer loans, which are collateralized,
      and corporate loans for which the borrower is carefully evaluated and monitored.
      RJBank's policy is to require customers to provide such collateral prior to
      the
      disbursement of approved loans. The amount of collateral obtained, if it is
      deemed necessary by RJBank upon extension of credit, is based on management's
      credit evaluation of the counterparty. Collateral held varies but may include
      accounts receivable, inventory, residential real estate, and income-producing
      commercial properties. When using derivative financial instruments to hedge
      exposures to changes in interest rates, RJBank exposes itself to credit risk
      with those counterparties also. RJBank minimizes the credit or repayment risk
      of
      derivative instruments by entering into transactions only with high-quality
      counterparties whose credit rating is investment grade.  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, RJBank has entered into a $460 million reverse repurchase
      agreement with a single counterparty. Although RJBank is exposed to risk that
      this counterparty may not fulfill its contractual obligation, the risk of
      default is minimal due to the creditworthiness of the counterparty, collateral
      received and the short duration of this agreement. 

The
      Company is subject to concentration risk if it holds large positions, extends
      large loans to, or has large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower,
      or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry).
      Securities purchased under agreements to resell consist entirely of securities
      issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. Receivables from and payables
      to
      clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large
      number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully
      monitored. Inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made,
      including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and
      businesses. The Company seeks to limit this risk through careful review of
      the
      underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management,
      taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the
      counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration
      of
      the position or commitment and other positions or commitments
      outstanding. 

The
      Company is the lessor in two leveraged commercial aircraft transactions with
      two
      major domestic airlines (Delta and Continental). The Company's ability to
      realize its expected return is dependent upon the airlines' ability to fulfill
      their lease obligations. In the event that the airlines default on their lease
      commitments and the Trustee for the debt holders is unable to re-lease or sell
      the planes with adequate terms, the Company would suffer a loss of some or
      all
      of its investment. Delta Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection on September
      14, 2005. Accordingly, the Company recorded a $6.5 million pretax charge in
      2005
      to fully reserve the balance of its investment in the leveraged lease of an
      aircraft to Delta. The Company also had taken a $4 million pretax charge in
      2004
      to partially reserve for this investment. Although Continental remains current
      on its lease payments to the Company, the Company is monitoring this lessee
      for
      specific events or circumstances that would increase the likelihood of a default
      on Continental s obligations under this lease given the difficult economic
      environment for the airline industry.  

Operational
      Risk   

Operational
      risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from the Company's
      operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or
      unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the
      Company's technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches
      in the Company's control processes. The Company operates different businesses
      in
      diverse markets and is reliant on the ability of its employees and systems
      to
      process a large number of transactions. These risks are less direct than credit
      and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly
      changing environment with increasing transaction volumes. In the event of a
      breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees,
      the
      Company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its
      reputation. In order to mitigate and control operational risk, the Company
      has
      developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are
      designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels
      throughout the organization and within such departments as Accounting,
      Operations, Information Technology, Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit. These
      control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures
      are being followed and that the Company's various businesses are operating
      within established corporate policies and limits. Business continuity plans
      exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as
      deemed appropriate. 

39 

A
      Compliance and Standards Committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly
      to consider policy issues. The Committee reviews material customer complaints
      and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose
      of
      identifying issues that present risk exposure to customers or to the Company.
      The Committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then
      disseminated throughout the Company. 

The
      Company has established a Quality of Markets Committee that meets regularly
      to
      monitor the best execution activities of the trading departments within the
      Company as they relate to customer orders. This Committee is comprised of
      representatives from the OTC Trading, Listed Trading, Options, Compliance and
      Legal Departments and is under the direction of a senior officer of the Company.
      This Committee reviews reports from OTC Trading, Listed Trading and Options
      departments and recommends action for improvement when necessary.  

Regulatory
      and Legal Risk   

Legal
      risk includes the risk of Private Client Group customer claims, the possibility
      of sizable adverse legal judgments and non-compliance with applicable legal
      and
      regulatory requirements. The Company is generally subject to extensive
      regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts business.
      Regulatory oversight of the securities industry has become increasingly
      demanding over the past several years and the Company, as well as others in
      the
      industry, has been directly affected by this increased regulatory
      scrutiny. 

The
      Company has comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory
      capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of
      customer funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money-laundering
      and
      record keeping.   The
      Company a  nd
        its
      subsidiaries have designated Anti-money Laundering Compliance Officers who
      monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
  The
      Company acts as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed
      income product offerings. Particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager,
      the Company has financial and legal exposure. To manage this exposure,
  a
      committee of senior executives review proposed underwriting commitments to
      assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence
      investigation.  

The
      Company's major business units have compliance departments that are responsible
      for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures
      to
      conform to changes in applicable regulations. 

During
      the past year, the number of claims has continued to decline to more historic
      levels. While these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, the Company
      does, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending
      against such claims. See further discussion on the Company's reserve policy
      under "Critical Accounting Policies"; see also "Legal Proceedings" and
      "Regulation". 

40 

Table
      of
      Contents   

        ITEM
      8.          FINANCIAL
      STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA    

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

The
      Board
      of Directors and Shareholders 

      Raymond
      James Financial, Inc.: 

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of
      Raymond James Financial, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and
      2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive
      income,   changes
      in shareholders  equity,  
      and cash
      flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2006.
      These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
      management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
      financial statements based on our audits. 

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
      on a
      test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
      statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
      and
      significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
      reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
      in all material respects, the financial position of Raymond James Financial,
      Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of
      their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
      period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
      accounting principles. 

We
      also
      have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Raymond James Financial,
      Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based
      on criteria established in    Internal
      Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
      of the Treadway Commission (COSO)   ,
      and our
      report dated December 14, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s
      assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial
      reporting. 

KPMG
      LLP 

Tampa,
      Florida 

      December
        14,
      2006 

      Certified
      Public Accountants 

41 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

        CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION   

42 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

        CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

      (in
      thousands, except per share amounts) 

*
      All
      share amounts have been adjusted for the March 22, 2006 3-for-2 stock
      split. 

      See
      accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

43 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

        CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY   

       (in
      thousands, except per share amounts)  

*
      Adjusted to reflect 3-for-2 stock split paid on March 22, 2006. 

      See
      accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

44 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

        CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

      (in
      thousands) 

      (continued
      on next page) 

See
      accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

45 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

        CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

      (in
      thousands) 

      (continued) 

See
      accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

46 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

        NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Note
      1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:   

Description
      of Business   

Raymond
      James Financial, Inc. ( RJF ) is a holding company whose subsidiaries are
      engaged in various financial services businesses, including the underwriting,
      distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and debt securities and the sale
      of mutual funds and other investment products. In addition, some of these
      subsidiaries provide investment management services for retail and institutional
      clients and banking and trust services. The accounting and reporting policies
      of
      Raymond James Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) conform to
      accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
      ( U.S. ), the more significant of which are summarized below: 

Basis
      of Presentation   

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RJF and its
      consolidated subsidiaries that are generally controlled through a majority
      voting interest. All material consolidated subsidiaries are 100% owned by the
      Company. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
      Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 46R,  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities 
( FIN 46R ), the Company also consolidates any variable interest entities
      ( VIEs ) of which it is the primary beneficiary, as defined.   Additional
      information is provided in Note 6 below  .
      When
      the Company does not have a controlling interest in an entity, but exerts
      significant influence over the entity, the Company applies the equity method
      of
      accounting. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been
      eliminated in consolidation. 

Management
      Estimates and Assumptions   

The
      preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates
      and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
      disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
      financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
      the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and
      could
      have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

Reporting
      Period   

Through
      fiscal 2005, the Company's fiscal year ended on the last Friday in September
      of
      each year.   Three
      of
      the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries, Raymond James Bank ( RJBank ), Raymond
      James Limited ( RJ Ltd. ) and Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. ( RJ Tax
      Credit )  ,
      have
      fiscal years that end on the last day of September. Certain other entities
      also
      have fiscal periods that do not coincide with the Company's fiscal period.
      Any
      individually material transactions are reviewed and recorded in the appropriate
      fiscal year.  

On
      December 1, 2005 the Company s Board of Directors approved a change in the
      Company s fiscal year from the last Friday in September of each year to
      September 30 of each year. This also changes the ending date of the Company s
      fiscal quarters from the last Friday in each quarter to the last day of each
      quarter. 

Recognition
      of Revenues   

Securities
      transactions and related commission revenues and expenses are recorded on a
      trade date basis. 

Investment
      banking revenues are recorded at the time a transaction is completed and the
      related income is reasonably determinable. Investment banking revenues include
      management fees and underwriting fees, net of reimbursable expenses, earned
      in
      connection with the distribution of the underwritten securities, merger and
      acquisition fees, private placement fees and limited partnership
      distributions. 

The
      Company earns investment advisory fees based on the value of clients' portfolios
      managed by its investment advisor subsidiaries. These fees are recorded ratably
      over the period earned. 

Financial
      service fees include per account fees such as IRA fees, transaction fees on
      fee
      based accounts, service fees and distributions fees received from mutual
      funds. 

47 

Under
      clearing agreements, the Company clears trades for unaffiliated correspondent
      brokers and retains a portion of commissions as a fee for its services.
      Correspondent clearing revenues are recorded net of commissions remitted and
      included in other revenue. Total commissions generated by correspondents were
      $29,985,000, $28,957,000, and $24,289,000 and commissions remitted totaled
      $25,049,000, $24,435,000, and $19,719,000 for the years ended September 30,
      2006, September 30, 2005, and September 24, 2004, respectively. 

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents   

Cash
      equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days
      or
      less, other than those used for trading purposes. 

Assets
      Segregated Pursuant to Federal Regulations   

In
      accordance with Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Raymond
      James   Associates ( RJA ), as a broker-dealer carrying client accounts, is
      subject to requirements related to maintaining cash or qualified securities
      in a
      segregated reserve account for the exclusive benefit of its clients. Segregated
      assets at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 consist of cash and cash
      equivalents. 

Repurchase
      Agreements   

The
      Company purchases short-term securities under agreements to resell ( reverse
      repurchase agreements ). Additionally, the Company sells securities under
      agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ). Both reverse repurchase and
      repurchase agreements are accounted for as collateralized financings and are
      carried at contractual amounts plus accrued interest. Other than RJBank s policy
      described below, it is the Company's policy to obtain possession of collateral
      with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount loaned under
      the reverse repurchase agreements. To ensure that the market value of the
      underlying collateral remains sufficient, the collateral is valued daily, and
      the Company may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral (or
      may
      return collateral to counterparties) when appropriate.  

RJBank s
      reverse repurchase agreements are accounted for as collateralized investing
      transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were
      acquired plus accrued interest. Securities obtained under the resale agreements
      have a market value equal to or exceeding the principal amount of the resale
      agreements. The securities are held by third party custodians and are segregated
      under written agreements that recognize RJBank s interest in the securities. The
      securities purchased are primarily mortgage-backed securities or collateralized
      mortgage obligations ( CMOs ) issued by U.S. agencies. The market value of
      securities purchased is monitored and collateral is obtained from or returned
      to
      the counterparty when appropriate. These reverse repurchase agreements generally
      mature on the next business day. RJBank has the right to sell, transfer or
      pledge the securities purchased under agreements to resell. 

Securities
      Owned   

Trading
      securities are comprised primarily of the financial instruments held by the
      Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries. These instruments are recorded at fair
      value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in current period earnings.
      Fair values are generally based on prices from independent sources, such as
      listed market prices or broker or dealer price quotations.   For
      investments in illiquid and privately held securities that do not have readily
      determinable fair values through quoted market prices, the determination of
      fair
      value is based upon consideration of available information, including types
      of
      securities, current financial information, restrictions on dispositions, market
      values of underlying securities and quotations for similar
      instruments. 

Available
      for sale securities are comprised primarily of CMOs and mortgage related debt.
      Debt and equity securities classified as available for sale are reported at
      fair
      value with unrealized gains or losses, net of deferred taxes, reported in
      shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.
      Fair values of the debt securities are estimated based on bid quotations
      received from securities dealers or, if quoted market prices are not available,
      then the fair value is estimated using quoted market prices for similar
      securities, pricing models, or discounted cash flow analyses, using observable
      market data where available. All realized gains and losses are determined on
      a
      specific identification basis and are included in current period earnings.
      Additionally, any unrealized losses deemed to be other than temporary are
      included in current period earnings     and
      a new
      cost basis for the security is established. Many factors are considered to
      determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including whether
      the
      Company has the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price
      recovery and whether evidence indicating the cost of the investment is
      recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. Evidence considered in this
      assessment includes the reasons for the impairment, the severity and duration
      of
      the impairment, changes in value subsequent to year-end, and forecasted
      performance of the security.  

48 

Brokerage
      Client Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   

Brokerage
      client receivables include receivables of the Company's asset management and
      broker-dealer subsidiaries. The receivables from asset management clients are
      primarily for accrued asset management service fees, while the receivables
      from
      broker-dealer clients are principally for amounts due on cash and margin
      transactions and are generally collateralized by securities owned by the
      clients. Both the receivables from the asset management and broker-dealer
      clients are reported at their outstanding principal balance, adjusted for any
      allowance for doubtful accounts. When a broker-dealer receivable is considered
      to be impaired, the amount of the impairment is generally measured based on
      the
      fair value of the securities acting as collateral, which is measured based
      on
      current prices from independent sources such as listed market prices or
      broker-dealer price quotations. Securities owned by customers, including those
      that collateralize margin or other similar transactions, are not reflected
      in
      the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition. 

The
      Company also makes loans or pays advances to Financial Advisors, primarily
      for
      recruiting and retention purposes. The Company provides for an allowance for
      doubtful accounts based on an evaluation of the Company s ability to collect
      such receivables. The Company s ongoing evaluation includes the review of
      specific accounts of Financial Advisors no longer associated with the Company
      and the Company s historical collection experience.  

Securities
      Borrowed and Securities Loaned   

Securities
      borrowed and securities loaned transactions are reported as collateralized
      financings and recorded at the amount of collateral advanced or received.
      Securities borrowed transactions generally require the Company to deposit cash
      with the lender. With respect to securities loaned, the Company generally
      receives collateral in the form of cash in an amount in excess of the market
      value of securities loaned. The Company monitors the market value of securities
      borrowed and loaned on a daily basis, with additional collateral obtained or
      refunded, as necessary. 

Bank
      Client Loans and Allowances for Losses   

Bank
      loans are primarily comprised of loans originated or purchased by RJBank and
      include commercial and residential mortgage loans, as well as non-real estate
      commercial and consumer loans. The Company records these loans at amortized
      cost, adjusted for an allowance for loan loss. Included in amortized cost are
      any deferred fees or loan origination costs plus the unamortized premiums or
      discounts on purchased loans.  

Loan
      origination fees, net of related costs, are capitalized and recognized in
      interest income using the interest or straight-line method, or proportionate
      to
      the amount of principal payments, over the contractual life of the loans.

Client
      loans at RJBank are generally collateralized by real estate or other property.
      RJBank provides for both an allowance for losses in   accordance  
      with
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 5,  Accounting for
      Contingencies , and a reserve for individually impaired loans in accordance with
      SFAS No. 114,  Accounting by a Creditor for Impairment of a Loan . The
      calculation of the SFAS No. 5 allowance is subjective as management segregates
      the loan portfolio into different homogeneous classes and assigns each class
      an
      allowance percentage based on the perceived risk associated with that class
      of
      loans.   During
      the fiscal year, RJBank re-evaluated and implemented changes to the loan loss
      reserve methodology in conjunction with a revision to the corporate loan grading
      process. Because of continued and planned growth, the loan grading process
      was
      revised and expanded to provide more specific and detailed risk measurement
      across the corporate loan portfolio.   The
      factors taken into consideration when assigning  
      the
      reserve percentage to each reserve category include estimates of borrower
      default probabilities and collateral values; trends in delinquencies; volume
      and
      terms; changes in geographic distribution, lending policies, local, regional,
      and national economic conditions; concentrations of credit risk and past loss
      history. In addition, the Company provides for potential losses inherent in
      RJBank s unfunded lending commitments using the criteria above, further adjusted
      for an estimated probability of funding. For individual loans identified as
      impaired, RJBank measures impairment based on the present value of expected
      future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, the loan's
      observable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is
      collateralized. At September 30, 2006, the amortized cost of all RJBank loans
      was $2.3 billion and an allowance for loan losses of $18.7 million was recorded
      against that balance. The total allowance for loan losses, including $4 million
      in reserves for off-balance sheet exposures maintained in Other Liabilities,
      approximates 1% of the amortized cost of the loan portfolio.  

Once
      RJBank has identified a loan as impaired, the accrual of interest on the loan
      is
      discontinued when either principal or interest becomes 90 days past due or
      when
      the full timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain. When
      a
      loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued and unpaid interest receivable
      is written off and accretion of the net deferred loan origination fees ceases.
      The loan is accounted for on the cash or cost recovery method thereafter until
      qualifying for return to accrual status.  

49 

Investments
      in Real Estate Partnerships- Held by Variable Interest
      Entities   

A
      wholly
      owned subsidiary of the Company is the managing member or general partner in
      several separate tax credit housing funds. Additional information is presented
      in Note 6 below. These funds invest in limited partnerships which purchase
      and
      develop affordable housing properties qualifying for federal and state tax
      credits. As of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, the investments
      related to these limited partnerships totaled approximately $228.0 million
      and
      $138.2 million, respectively, on the Company s Consolidated Statement of
      Financial Condition.  

Property
      and Equipment   

Property,
      equipment and leasehold improvements are stated at cost less accumulated
      depreciation and amortization. Depreciation of assets is primarily provided
      for
      using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets,
      which range from three to seven years for software, two to five for furniture
      and equipment and 10 to 31 years for buildings and land improvements. Leasehold
      improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter
      of
      the lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets.  

Additions,
      improvements and expenditures for repairs and maintenance that significantly
      extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized. Other expenditures for
      repairs and maintenance are charged to operations in the period incurred. Gains
      and losses on disposals of property and equipment are reflected in income in
      the
      period realized. 

Goodwill   

Intangible
      assets consist predominantly of goodwill related to the acquisitions of Roney
        Co. (now part of RJA) and Goepel McDermid, Inc. (now called Raymond James
      Ltd). This goodwill, totaling $63 million, was allocated to the reporting units
      within the Private Client   Group  
      and
      Capital Markets segments pursuant to SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
      Intangible Assets . Goodwill represents the excess cost of a business
      acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. In accordance with
      SFAS No. 142, indefinite-life intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized.
      Rather they are subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or more often
      if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. This test involves
      assigning tangible assets and liabilities, identified intangible assets and
      goodwill to reporting units and comparing the fair value of each reporting
      unit
      to its carrying amount. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount,
      a
      further test is required to measure the amount of the impairment.  

When
      available, the Company uses recent, comparable transactions to estimate the
      fair
      value of the respective reporting units. The Company calculates an estimated
      fair value based on multiples of revenues, earnings, and book value of
      comparable transactions. However, when such comparable transactions are not
      available or have become outdated, the Company uses discounted cash flow
      scenarios to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. As of September
      30,
      2006, goodwill had been allocated to the Private Client Group of RJA, and both
      the Private Client Group and Capital Markets segments of RJ Ltd. As of the
      most
      recent impairment test, the Company determined that the carrying value of the
      goodwill for each reporting unit had not been impaired. However, changes in
      current circumstances or business conditions could result in an impairment
      of
      goodwill. As required, the Company will continue to perform impairment testing
      on an annual basis or when an event occurs or circumstances change that would
      more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its
      carrying amount. 

Exchange
      Memberships      

Exchange
      memberships are carried at cost or, if an  other than temporary  impairment in
      value has occurred, at a value that reflects management's estimate of the
      impairment. The Company s membership interests, which are included in prepaid
      expenses and other assets at a cost of $1,009,000 and $2,820,000 at September
      30, 2006, and September 30, 2005, respectively, had an aggregate market value
      of
      $2,565,000 and $10,743,000 at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
      respectively. The market value of the exchange memberships is determined based
      on the last reported sale.  

Legal
      Reserves   

The
      Company recognizes liabilities for contingencies when there is an exposure
      that,
      when fully analyzed, indicates it is both probable that a liability has been
      incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. When a range of
      probable loss can be estimated, the Company accrues the most likely amount;
      if
      not determinable, the Company accrues at least the minimum of the range of
      probable loss.  

50 

The
      Company records reserves related to legal proceedings in "other payables".
      Such
      reserves are established and maintained in accordance with SFAS No. 5,
      "Accounting for Contingencies", and FIN No. 14. The determination of these
      reserve amounts requires significant judgment on the part of management.
      Management considers many factors including, but not limited to: the amount
      of
      the claim; the amount of the loss in the client's account; the basis and
      validity of the claim; the possibility of wrongdoing on the part of an employee
      of the Company; previous results in similar cases; and legal precedents and
      case
      law. Each legal proceeding is reviewed with counsel in each accounting period
      and the reserve is adjusted as deemed appropriate by management. Lastly, each
      case is reviewed to determine if it is probable that insurance coverage will
      apply, in which case the reserve is reduced accordingly. Any change in the
      reserve amount is recorded in the consolidated financial statements and is
      recognized as a charge/credit to earnings in that period.  

Stock
      Compensation   

At
      September 30, 2006, the Company had multiple stock-based employee compensation
      plans, which are described more fully in Note 17 below. In addition, the Company
      has a stock option plan for its independent contractor Financial Advisors,
      which
      is described more fully in Note 18 below. Effective October 1, 2005, the Company
      adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. Given that the Company had adopted
      the
      fair value recognition provisions as of September 28, 2002, using the modified
      prospective method of adoption within the provisions of SFAS No. 148  Accounting
      for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure , the adoption of SFAS
      No. 123R did not have a material impact on the Company s accounting for employee
      stock-based compensation. The Company accounts for stock options granted to
      its
      independent contractor Financial Advisors following the provisions of Emerging
      Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 96-18  Accounting for Equity Instruments
      That Are Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with
      Selling, Goods or Services.  As a result, these options are revalued at each
      reporting date for purposes of measuring compensation expense associated with
      these options. Compensation expense is recognized for all stock-based
      compensation with future service requirements over the relevant vesting
      periods. 

Derivative
      Financial Instruments   

The
      Company makes limited use of derivative financial instruments in certain of
      its
      businesses. Certain derivative financial instruments have been used to manage
      specifically identified interest rate risk at RJBank, while others are used
      in
      the conduct of the Company s fixed income business. The Company accounts for
      derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in accordance with
      SFAS
      No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as
      subsequently amended by SFAS No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
      and
      Hedging Activities - Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statements No.
      133",
      SFAS No. 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
      Activities", and SFAS No. 149, "Amendments of Statement 133 on Derivative
      Instruments and Hedging Activities", which establishes accounting and reporting
      standards for derivatives and hedging activities. These statements establish
      standards for designating a derivative as a hedge. Derivatives in a
      broker-dealer or those that do not meet the criteria for designation as a hedge
      are accounted for as trading account assets and liabilities, and recorded at
      fair value in the statement of financial condition with the realized and
      unrealized gains or losses recorded in the consolidated statement of operations
      for that period. 

Under
      FIN
      39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts , the Company elects to
      net-by-counterparty the fair value of interest rate swap contracts entered
      into
      by the Fixed Income Trading group. Certain contracts contain a legally
      enforceable master netting arrangement and therefore, the fair value of those
      swap contracts are netted by counterparty in the consolidated statement of
      financial condition.  

The
      Company uses interest rate swaps as well as future contracts as part of its
      fixed income business. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swaps
      which are, in turn, substantially economically hedged with counterparties.
      These
      positions are marked to market with the gain or loss and the related interest
      recorded in Net Trading Profits within the statement of operations for the
      period. Any collateral exchanged as part of the swap agreement is recorded
      in
      Broker Receivables and Payables in the consolidated statement of financial
      condition for the period. 

To
      manage
      interest rate exposures, RJBank has used interest rate swaps. Interest rate
      swaps are agreements to exchange interest rate payment streams based on a
      notional principal amount. RJBank specifically designated interest rate swaps
      as
      hedges of the variability in interest rates on the deposit base utilized to
      fund
      the purchase of loan pools that initially carry a fixed rate, and recognized
      interest differentials as adjustments to net interest income in the period
      they
      occurred. 

51 

All
      derivative instruments are recognized on the statement of financial condition
      at
      their fair value. On the date the derivative contract is entered into, RJBank
      designates the derivative as a hedge of the variability of cash flows to be
      paid
      related to a recognized liability ("cash flow hedge ). RJBank formally documents
      all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as
      its
      risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge
      transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated
      as cash flow hedges to specific liabilities on the statement of financial
      condition. RJBank also formally assesses, both at the hedge's inception and
      on
      an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions
      are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of the hedged
      items. 

Changes
      in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that is
      designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are recorded in other
      comprehensive income to the extent effective, until earnings are affected by
      the
      variability in cash flows of the designated hedged item. Any ineffectiveness
      resulting from the cash flow hedge is recorded in RJBank's non-interest income
      or expense at the end of each hedging period. 

RJBank
      discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when it is determined that the
      derivative is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of
      the
      hedged item, the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or
      the
      derivative is no longer designated as a hedging instrument, because management
      determines that the designation of the derivative as a hedging instrument is
      no
      longer appropriate. 

When
      hedge accounting is discontinued, RJBank continues to carry the derivative
      at
      its fair value in the statement of financial condition, and recognizes any
      changes in its fair value in earnings. 

Foreign
      Currency Translation    

The
      Company consolidates its foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures. The statement
      of financial condition of the subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated
      at
      exchange rates as of the period end. The statements of operations are translated
      at an average exchange rate for the period. The gains or losses resulting from
      translating foreign currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are included
      in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
      income. 

Income
      Taxes   

The
      Company utilizes the asset and liability approach defined in SFAS No. 109,
       Accounting for Income Taxes , which requires the recognition of deferred tax
      assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary
      differences between the financial statement amounts and the tax bases of assets
      and liabilities. 

Earnings
      per Share   

Basic
      EPS
      is calculated by dividing earnings available to common stockholders by the
      weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is similar
      to
      basic EPS, but adjusts for the effect of the potential issuance of   common
      shares by application of the treasury stock method. 

Reclassifications   

Certain
        amounts from prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current
        year
        presentation. The effect of these reclassifications on the Company s previously
        reported annual consolidated financial statements was not material.     These
        reclassifications had no effect on net income. 

Revision
        to 2005 and 2004 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

Certain
        amounts in the Company s 2005 and 2004 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
        have been reclassified between operating, investing and financing activities
        to
        comply with SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows  (see Note 23 of the Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements). The effect of these reclassifications
        on the
        Company s previously reported annual consolidated financial statements was not
        material.     These
        reclassifications had no effect on net income.  

52 

NOTE
      2 - TRADING SECURITIES AND TRADING SECURITIES SOLD BUT NOT YET
      PURCHASED:        

Corporate
      obligations and agencies included mortgage-backed securities of $77.1 million
      and $79.8 million at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively,
      are included in the table above. Mortgage-backed securities sold but not yet
      purchased of $34.0 million and $84,000 at September 30, 2006 and September
      30,
      2005, respectively, are included in agencies in the table above. Net unrealized
      gains (losses) related to open trading positions at September 30, 2006,
      September 30, 2005, and September 24, 2004 were $4,387,000, $(1,257,000), and
      $7,025,000, respectively.  

NOTE
      3 - AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES:        

Available
      for sale securities are comprised primarily of CMOs, mortgage related debt,
      and
      certain equity securities of the Company's non-broker-dealer subsidiaries,
      principally RJBank. There were     proceeds
      of $252,000 from the sale of securities available for sale for the year ended
      September 30, 2006. There were proceeds of $9,250,000 for the year ended
      September 30, 2005 and no proceeds for the year ended September 24, 2004.

The
      amortized cost and estimated market values of securities available for sale
      at
      September 30, 2006 are as follows: 

The
      amortized cost and estimated market values of securities available for sale
      at
      September 30, 2005 are as follows: 

53 

The
      amortized cost and estimated market value of securities available for sale
      at
      September 30, 2006, by contractual maturity are shown below. Since RJBank s
      available for sale securities are backed by mortgages, actual maturities will
      differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to
      call
      or prepay obligations with or without prepayment penalties. 

The
      following table shows RJBank s investments  gross unrealized losses and fair
      value, aggregated by investment category and length of time the individual
      securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at September
      30,
      2006 (in 000 s). 

The
      reference point for determining when securities are in a loss position is fiscal
      year-end. As such, it is possible that a security had a fair value that exceeded
      its amortized cost on other days during the past twelve-month period. The
      unrealized losses at September 30, 2006, were primarily caused by interest
      rate
      changes. The Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan Mortgage
      Corporation guarantees the contractual cash flows of the agency collateralized
      mortgage obligation securities, and the non-agency collateralized mortgage
      obligations are rated AAA. It is expected that the securities would not be
      settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. Because
      the
      decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not
      credit quality, and because the Company has the ability and intent to hold
      these
      investments until a fair value recovery or maturity, these investments are
      not
      considered "other-than-temporarily" impaired. 

54 

NOTE
      4 - RECEIVABLES FROM AND PAYABLES TO BROKERAGE CLIENTS:        

Receivables
      from Brokerage Clients  

Receivables
      from brokerage clients include amounts arising from normal cash and margin
      transactions and fees receivable. Margin receivables are collateralized by
      securities owned by brokerage clients. Such collateral is not reflected in
      the
      accompanying consolidated financial statements. The amount receivable from
      clients at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 is as follows: 

Payables
      to Brokerage Clients   

Payables
      to brokerage clients include brokerage client funds on deposits awaiting
      reinvestment. The following table presents a summary of such payables at
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005:  

Interest
      expense on brokerage client payables for the years ended September 30, 2006,
      September 30, 2005, and September 24, 2004 was $143,428,000, $58,486,000, and
      $11,659,000, respectively. 

NOTE
      5 - BANK LOANS, NET:        

Bank
      client receivables are primarily comprised of loans originated or purchased
      by
      RJBank and include commercial and residential mortgage loans, as well as
      consumer loans. These receivables are   collateralized
      by first or second mortgages on residential property, real property, or the
      general assets of the borrower. T  he
      following table provides a summary of RJBank's loans receivable at September
      30,
      2006 and September 30, 2005: 

At
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, $60,000,000 and $70,000,000 in
      Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) advances, respectively, were secured by a
      blanket lien on RJBank's residential mortgage loan portfolio. 

55 

RJBank's
      gain from the sale of originated loans held for sale were $413,000, $421,000,
      and $258,000 for the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005, and
      September 24, 2004, respectively. 

Certain
      officers, directors, and affiliates, and their related interests were indebted
      to RJBank for $294,000 and $297,000 at September 30, 2006 and September 30,
      2005, respectively. 

Changes
      in the allowance for loan losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments
      at
      RJBank for the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005, and September
      24, 2004 are as follows:  

The
      total
      allowance for loan losses includes both the reserve for funded loans shown
      net
      of Bank Loans Receivable on the statement of financial condition, and the
      reserve for unfunded lending commitments included in Trade and Other
      Payables. 

The
      investment in loans on nonaccrual status at September 30, 2006 was $2.1 million.
      At September 30, 2005, loans on nonaccrual status were immaterial to the
      consolidated financial statements. 

The
      investment and the average balance of impaired loans at September 30, 2006,
      September 30, 2005, and September 24, 2004 along with the related interest
      income recognized on these loans, were immaterial to the consolidated financial
      statements. 

56 

NOTE
      6 - VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES ( VIEs ):   

Under
      the
      provisions of FIN 46R the Company has determined that Raymond James Employee
      Investment Funds I and II (the  EIF Funds ), Comprehensive Software Systems,
      Inc. ( CSS ), certain entities in which Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc.
      ( RJTCF ) owns variable interests, various partnerships involving real estate,
      and a trust fund established for employee retention purposes are VIEs. Of these,
      the Company has determined that the EIF Funds, certain tax credit fund
      partnerships/LLCs, and the trust fund should be consolidated in the financial
      statements. 

The
      following table summarizes the balance sheets of the variable interest entities
      consolidated by the Company: 

*
      Included in common shares in treasury in the Company s Consolidated Statement of
      Financial Condition. 

The
      EIF
      Funds are limited partnerships, for which the Company is the general partner,
      that invest in the merchant banking and private equity activities of the Company
      and other unaffiliated venture capital limited partnerships. The EIF Funds
      were
      established as compensation and retention measures for certain qualified key
      employees of the Company. The Company makes non-recourse loans to these
      employees for two-thirds of the purchase price per unit. The loans and
      applicable interest are to be repaid based on the earnings of the EIF Funds.
      The
      Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, and accordingly, consolidates
      the EIF Funds, which had combined assets of approximately $20.5 million at
      September 30, 2006. None of those assets act as collateral for any obligations
      of the EIF Funds. The Company's exposure to loss is limited to its contributions
      and the non-recourse loans funded to the employee investors, for which their
      partnership interests serve as collateral. At September 30, 2006 that exposure
      is approximately $8.8 million. 

CSS
      was
      formed by a group of broker-dealer firms, including the Company, to develop
      a
      back-office software system. CSS is currently funded by capital contributions
      and loans from its owners. CSS had assets of $4.7 million at September 30,
      2006.
      As of September 30, 2006, the Company owns approximately 42% of CSS. The
      Company's exposure to loss is limited to its capital contributions, amounts
      loaned and committed. The Company is not the primary beneficiary of CSS and
      accounts for its investment using the equity method of accounting. 

RJTCF
      is
      a wholly owned subsidiary of RJF and is the managing member or general partner
      in approximately 43 separate tax credit housing funds having one or more
      investor members or limited partners. These tax credit housing funds are
      organized as limited liability companies or limited partnerships for the purpose
      of investing in limited partnerships which purchase and develop low income
      housing properties qualifying for tax credits. As of September 30, 2006, 41
      of
      these tax credit housing funds are VIEs as defined by FIN 46R, and RJTCF s
      interest in these tax credit housing funds which are VIEs range from .01% to
      1%.

57 

RJTCF
      has
      concluded it is the primary beneficiary in approximately one quarter of these
      tax credit housing funds, and accordingly, consolidates these funds, which
      have
      combined assets of approximately $329.6 million at September 30, 2006. None
      of
      those assets act as collateral for any obligations of these funds. The Company's
      exposure to loss is limited to its investments in and advances to these funds.
      At September 30, 2006, that exposure is approximately $15.3 million.

RJTCF
      is
      not the primary beneficiary of the remaining tax credit housing funds it
      determined to be VIEs and accordingly the Company does not consolidate its
      financial interests in these funds. The Company's exposure to loss is limited
      to
      its investments in and advances to those funds. At September 30, 2006, that
      exposure is approximately $21.2 million.  

The
      two
      remaining tax credit housing funds that have been determined not to be VIEs
      are
      wholly owned by RJTCF and are included in the Company s consolidated financial
      statements. As of September 30, 2006, only one of these funds had any material
      activity. This fund typically holds interests in certain tax credit limited
      partnerships for less than 90-days and has assets of approximately $4.3 million
      at September 30, 2006. 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the Company has a variable interest in several limited
      partnerships involved in various real estate activities, in which a subsidiary
      is the general partner. The Company is not the primary beneficiary of these
      partnerships and accordingly the Company does not consolidate its financial
      interests in these partnerships. These partnerships have assets of approximately
      $25.5 million at September 30, 2006. The Company's exposure to loss is limited
      to its capital contributions. The carrying value of the Company's investment
      in
      these partnerships is not material at September 30, 2006. 

One
      of
      the Company s restricted stock plans is associated with a trust fund which was
      established through the Company s wholly owned Canadian subsidiary. This trust
      fund was established and funded to enable the trust fund to acquire Company
      common stock in the open market to be used to settle restricted stock units
      granted as a retention vehicle for certain employees of the Canadian subsidiary.
      For financial statement purposes, the Company is deemed to be the primary
      beneficiary in accordance with FIN 46R, and accordingly, consolidates this
      trust
      fund, which has assets of approximately $5.1 million at September 30, 2006.
      None
      of those assets are specifically pledged as collateral for any obligations
      of
      the trust fund. The Company's exposure to loss is limited to its contributions
      to the trust fund. At September 30, 2006, that exposure is approximately $5.1
      million. 

NOTE
      7 - LEVERAGED LEASES     :     

The
      Company is the lessor in two leveraged commercial aircraft transactions with
      two
      major domestic airlines (Delta and Continental). The Company's ability to
      realize its expected return is dependent upon the airlines' ability to fulfill
      their lease obligations. In the event that the airlines default on their lease
      commitments and the Trustee for the debt holders is unable to re-lease or sell
      the planes with adequate terms, the Company would suffer a loss of some or
      all
      of its investment. Delta Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection on September
      14, 2005. Accordingly, the Company recorded a $6.5 million pretax charge in
      2005
      to fully reserve the balance of its investment in the leveraged lease of an
      aircraft to Delta. The Company also had taken a $4 million pretax charge in
      2004
      to partially reserve for this investment. No amount of these charges represents
      a cash expenditure; however, in the likely event of a material modification
      to
      the lease or foreclosure of the aircraft by the debt holders in fiscal 2007,
      certain tax payments of up to approximately $8.1 million could be accelerated.
      The expected tax payments are currently reflected on the statement of financial
      condition as a deferred tax liability and are not expected to result in a
      further charge to earnings.  

58 

The
      Company also has a leveraged lease outstanding with Continental valued at $10.9
      million as of Sept. 30, 2006. The Company's equity investment represented 20%
      of
      the aggregate purchase price; the remaining 80% was funded by public debt issued
      in the form of equipment trust certificates. The residual value of the aircraft
      at the end of the lease term of approximately 17 years is projected to be 15%
      of
      the original cost. This lease expires in May 2014.  

Although
      Continental remains current on its lease payments to the Company, the inability
      of Continental to make its lease payments, or the termination or modification
      of
      the lease through a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in the write-down of
      the
      Company's investment and the acceleration of certain income tax payments. The
      Company is monitoring this lessee for specific events or circumstances that
      would increase the likelihood of a default on Continental s obligations under
      this lease given the difficult economic environment for the airline industry.

NOTE
      8 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:   

NOTE
      9 - BANK DEPOSITS:   

Bank
      deposits include demand deposits, savings accounts and certificates of deposit.
      The following table presents a summary of bank deposits at September 30, 2006
      and September 30, 2005:  

59 

Certificates
      of deposit issued have remaining maturities at September 30, 2006 and
      September 30, 2005, as follows:  

RJBank
      had deposits from officers and directors of $691,000 and $625,000 at September
      30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. 

Interest
      expense on bank client accounts is comprised of the following for the years
      ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and September 24,
      2004: 

NOTE
      10 - LOANS PAYABLE:   

Loans
      Payable   

Loans
      payable at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 are presented
      below: 

60 

(1) 

The
                Company and its subsidiaries maintain one committed and several
                uncommitted lines of credit denominated in U.S. dollars and one
                uncommitted line of credit denominated in Canadian dollars ( CDN ). At
                September 30, 2006, the aggregate domestic lines were $710 million
                and CDN
                $40 million, respectively, of which CDN $10.2 million was outstanding.
                The
                interest rates for the lines of credit are variable and are based
                on the
                Fed Funds rate, LIBOR, and Canadian prime rate. For the fiscal year
                ended
                September 30, 2006, interest rates on the lines of credit ranged
                from
                4.25% to 6.76%. For the fiscal year ended, September 30, 2005 interest
                rates on the lines of credit ranged from 2.25% to 5.34%. In addition,
                various foreign joint ventures of the Company have several lines
                of
                credit. At September 30, 2006 the aggregate unsecured lines of credit
                were
                $22.4 million, of which $3.8 million was outstanding. The interest
                rates
                for the lines of credit range from 17% to
                20%. 

(2) 

Mortgage
                notes payable is comprised of a mortgage loan for the financing of
                the
                Company's home office complex and a note for the financing of the
                office
                for a foreign joint venture. The mortgage loan bears interest at
                5.7% and
                is secured by land, buildings, and improvements with a net book value
                of
                $73.6 million at September 30, 2006. The foreign joint venture note
                bears
                interest at 8.25% and is secured by the
                building. 

(3) 

RJBank
                has $60 million in FHLB advances outstanding at September 30, 2006,
                which
                are comprised of long-term, fixed rate advances. The long-term, fixed
                rate
                advances bear interest at rates ranging from 2.37% to 5.67%. The
                outstanding FHLB advances mature between May 2008 and October 2014.
                These
                advances are secured by a blanket lien on RJBank's residential loan
                portfolio granted to FHLB at September 30, 2006. The FHLB has the
                right to
                convert advances totaling $50 million and $65 million at September
                30,
                2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively, to a floating rate at
                one or
                more future dates. RJBank has the right to prepay these advances
                without
                penalty if the FHLB exercises its
                right. 

Long-term
      borrowings at September 30, 2006, based on their contractual terms, mature
      as
      follows (in 000's): 

Loans
      Payable Related to Investments by Variable Interest Entities in Real Estate
      Partnerships   

The
      borrowings of certain variable interest entities are comprised of several loans,
      which are non-recourse to the Company. See Note 6   of
      the
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
      for
      additional information regarding the entities deemed to be variable interest
      entities under FIN 46R, which are consolidated by the Company. 

Variable
      interest entities  loans payable at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005
      are presented below: 

VIEs 
      long-term borrowings at September 30, 2006, based on their contractual terms,
      mature as follows (in 000's): 

61 

NOTE
      11 - DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:   

The
      Company makes limited use of derivative financial instruments in certain of
      its
      businesses. Certain derivative financial instruments have been used to manage
      specifically identified interest rate risk at RJBank, while others are used
      in
      the conduct of the Company s fixed income business. 

The
      Company uses interest rate swaps as well as futures contracts as part of its
      fixed income business. These positions are marked to market with the gain or
      loss and the related interest recorded in Net Trading Profits within the
      statement of operations for the period. Any collateral exchanged as part of
      the
      swap agreement is recorded in Broker Receivables and Payables in the
      consolidated statement of financial condition for the period. At September
      30,
      2006 and September 30, 2005, the Company had outstanding derivative contracts
      with notional amounts of $2.3 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, in
      interest rate swaps. The notional amount of a derivative contract does not
      change hands; it is simply used as a reference to calculate payments.
      Accordingly, the notional amount of the Company s derivative contracts
      outstanding at September 30, 2006 significantly exceeds the possible losses
      that
      could arise from such transactions. The net market value of all open swap
      positions at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 was $13 million and
      $10
      million, respectively. 

RJBank
      uses variable-rate deposits to finance the purchase of certain loan pools that
      contain debt instruments that are fixed for the first five years of their life.
      The funding sources expose RJBank to variability in interest payments due to
      changes in interest rates. Management believes it is prudent to limit the
      variability of its interest payments. To meet this objective, management entered
      into interest rate swap agreements to manage fluctuations in cash flows
      resulting from interest rate risk. These swaps changed the variable-rate cash
      flow exposure on the funding sources to fixed cash flows. Under the terms of
      the
      interest rate swaps, RJBank received variable interest rate payments and made
      fixed interest rate payments, thereby creating the equivalent of fixed-rate
      funding. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, RJBank was party to zero  
      and
      $11.5 million, respectively, in   notional
      amount of interest rate swap agreements, and had securities and cash of zero
      and
      $0.9 million, respectively, pledged or held as interest-bearing collateral
      for
      such agreements. 

Changes
      in the fair value of a derivative that is effective, as defined by SFAS 133,
      and
      that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are recorded in other
      comprehensive income until earnings are affected by the variability in cash
      flows of the designated hedged item. Any ineffectiveness resulting from the
      cash
      flow hedge is recorded in income or expense at the end of each reporting period.
      For purposes of the statement of cash flows, any ineffectiveness resulting
      from
      the cash flow hedge is subtracted or added back in the reconciliation of net
      income to cash provided by operating activities at the end of each reporting
      period. When hedge accounting is discontinued, RJBank continues to carry the
      derivative at its fair value in the statement of financial condition, and
      recognizes any changes in its fair value in earnings. For the years ended
      September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005, and September 24, 2004, RJBank recorded
      zero, ($207,767), and $391,651, respectively, in income (expense) from
      ineffective cash flow hedges and transition adjustments. The net amount of
      the
      existing unrealized losses expected to be reclassified into pretax earnings
      within the next 12 months was zero at September 30, 2006 and $100,000 at
      September 30, 2005. 

The
      Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the
      counterparties to its interest rate swap agreements. The Company performs a
      credit evaluation of counterparties prior to entering into swap transactions.
      Currently, the Company anticipates that all counterparties will be able to
      fully
      satisfy their obligations under those agreements. The Company may require
      collateral from counterparties to support these obligations as established
      by
      the credit threshold specified by the agreement and/or as a result of monitoring
      the credit standing of the counterparties.   The
      Company is also exposed to interest rate risk related to its interest rate
      swap
      agreements.   The
      Company monitors exposure in its derivatives subsidiary daily based on
      established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest
      rate
      risk, spread, ratio and basis risk and volatility. These exposures are monitored
      both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods.

62 

NOTE
      12 - INCOME TAXES:        

The
      provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following: 

The
      Company's income tax expense differs from the amount computed by applying the
      statutory federal income tax rate due to the following: 

U.S.
      and
      international components of income before income taxes were as
      follows: 

63 

The
      major
      deferred tax asset (liability) items, as computed under SFAS 109, are as
      follows: 

The
      Company has recorded a deferred tax asset at September 30, 2006 and September
      30, 2005. The net operating loss carryforwards expire between 2008 and 2016.
      No
      valuation allowance as defined by SFAS 109 is required for the years then ended
      as Management believes that it is more likely than not the deferred tax asset
      is
      realizable. 

The
       American Jobs Creation Act of 2004  provides for a one-time deduction for
      qualifying repatriations of foreign earnings in either fiscal year 2005 or
      2006.
      The 85% dividends received deduction can result in a lower tax rate if the
      eligible dividends are reinvested within the limitations and requirements of
      Internal Revenue Code Section 965. During fiscal year 2006, the Company
      repatriated $1.9 million in extraordinary dividends and recorded a tax liability
      of $102,000. To the degree that the cumulative undistributed earnings of
      non-U.S. subsidiaries were permanently invested, no deferred U.S. federal income
      taxes have been provided. We have provided for U.S. deferred income taxes in
      the
      amount of $2.9 million on undistributed earnings not considered permanently
      reinvested in our non-U.S. subsidiaries. 

NOTE
      13 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:   

Long-term
      lease agreements expire at various times through 2014. Minimum annual rentals
      under such agreements for the succeeding five fiscal years are approximately:
      $26,013,000 in 2007, $21,858,000 in 2008, $16,860,000 in 2009, $14,378,000
      in
      2010, $8,938,000 in 2011 and $13,719,000 thereafter. Rental expense incurred
      under all leases, including equipment under short-term agreements, aggregated
      $34,329,000, $31,949,000 and $31,396,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

See
      Note
      7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to the
      Company's interest in certain commercial aircraft leveraged leases. 

RJBank
      has outstanding at any time a significant number of commitments to extend credit
      or purchase loans. These arrangements are subject to strict credit control
      assessments and each client's credit worthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case
      basis. A summary of commitments to extend credit, purchase loans and letters
      of
      credit outstanding is as follows:  

Because
      many commitments expire without being funded in whole or part, the contract
      amounts are not estimates of future cash flows.  

64 

In
      the
      normal course of business, RJBank issues, or participates in the issuance of,
      financial standby letters of credit whereby it provides an irrevocable guarantee
      of payment in the event the letter of credit is drawn down by the beneficiary.
      As of September 30, 2006, $55.2 million of such letters of credit were
      outstanding. Of the letters of credit outstanding, $54.6 million are
      underwritten as part of a larger corporate credit relationship, and the
      remaining $600,000 are fully secured by cash or securities. In the event that
      a
      letter of credit is drawn down, RJBank would pursue repayment from the account
      party under the existing borrowing relationship, or would liquidate collateral,
      or both. The proceeds from repayment or liquidation of collateral are expected
      to cover the maximum potential amount of any future payments of amounts drawn
      down under the existing letters of credit.  

At
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, no securities were pledged by RJBank
      as collateral with the FHLB for advances. In lieu of pledging securities as
      collateral for advances, RJBank provided the FHLB with a lien against RJBank's
      portfolio of residential mortgage loans.  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, RJBank has entered into a $460 million reverse repurchase
      agreement with a single counterparty. Although RJBank is exposed to risk that
      this counterparty may not fulfill its contractual obligation, the risk of
      default is minimal due to the creditworthiness of the counterparty, collateral
      received and the short duration of this agreement. 

As
      part
      of an effort to increase brand awareness, the Company entered into a stadium
      naming rights contract in July 1998. The contract expires in 2016 and has a
      4%
      annual escalator. Expenses of $2,914,000,   $2,802,000  
      and
      $2,694,000 were recognized in the fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

In
      the
      normal course of business, the Company enters into underwriting commitments.
      Transactions relating to such commitments that were open at September 30, 2006
      and were subsequently settled had no material effect on the consolidated
      financial statements as of that date. 

The
      Company utilizes client marginable securities to satisfy deposits with clearing
      organizations. At September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, the Company had
      client margin securities valued at $65.2 million and $93.4 million,
      respectively, on deposit with a clearing organization. 

The
      Company has committed to lend $1.7 million to CSS in four equal
      installments     beginning
      in April 2006, the last of which is due in December 2006.   CSS
      was
      formed by a group of broker-dealer firms, including the Company, to develop
      a
      back-office software system. 

The
      Company has committed a total of $42.6 million, in amounts ranging from $200,000
      to $2.0 million, to 40 different independent venture capital or private equity
      partnerships. As of September 30, 2006, the Company had invested $29.4 million
      of that amount and has received $24.8 million in distributions.   Additionally,
      the Company is the general partner in two internally sponsored private equity
      limited partnerships to which it has committed $14 million. Of that amount,
      the
      Company had invested $11.7 million and has received $5.5 million in
      distributions as of September 30, 2006. 

The
      Company is the general partner in EIF Funds. These limited partnerships invest
      in the merchant banking and private equity activities of the Company and other
      unaffiliated venture capital limited partnerships. The EIF Funds were
      established as compensation and retention measures for certain qualified key
      employees of the Company. At September 30, 2006, the Company has $4.6 million
      committed to these funds. 

At
      September 30, 2006, the approximate market values of collateral received that
      can be repledged by the Company, were: 

During
      the year certain collateral was repledged. At September 30, 2006, the
      approximate market values of this portion of collateral and financial
      instruments owned that were repledged by the Company, were: 

65 

In
      the
      normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of the Company act as general
      partner and may be contingently liable for activities of various limited
      partnerships. These partnerships engaged primarily in real estate activities.
      In
      the opinion of the Company, such liabilities, if any, for the obligations of
      the
      partnerships will not in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the
      Company's consolidated financial position. 

The
      Company and its subsidiaries maintain one committed and several uncommitted
      lines of credit denominated in U.S. dollars and one uncommitted line of credit
      denominated in Canadian dollars. At September 30, 2006, the aggregate domestic
      lines were $710 million and total Canadian lines were CDN $40 million of which
      CDN $10.2 million was outstanding. The interest rates for the lines of credit
      are variable and are based on the Fed Funds rate, LIBOR, and Canadian prime
      rate. The Company s committed $200 million line of credit is subject to a 0.125%
      per annum facility fee. RJBank has $60 million in FHLB advances outstanding
      at
      September 30, 2006, which are comprised of long-term, fixed rate advances.
      RJBank had $781 million in credit available from the   FHLB
        at
      September 30, 2006. 

The
      Company has guaranteed lines of credit for various foreign joint ventures as
      follows: four lines of credit totaling $22.5 million in Turkey and one line
      of
      credit totaling $3 million in Argentina. At September 30, 2006, there was an
      outstanding balance of $1.1 million on the lines of credit in Turkey and none
      on
      the line in Argentina. The Company has also from time to time authorized
      guarantees for the completion of trades with counterparties in Argentina and
      Turkey. At September 30, 2006, there were no outstanding guarantees in Turkey
      and Argentina.  

The
      Company guarantees the existing mortgage debt of RJA of approximately $67.5
      million.   The
      Company may guarantee interest rate swap obligations of RJ Capital Services,
      Inc. The Company has also committed to lend to or guarantee obligations of
      RJTCF
      of up to $90.0 million upon request, subject to certain limitations as well
      as
      annual review and renewal. RJTCF borrows in order to invest in partnerships
      which purchase and develop properties qualifying for tax credits.   These
      investments in project partnerships are then sold to various tax credit funds,
      which have third party investors, and for which RJTCF serves as the managing
      member or general partner. RJTCF typically sells these investments within 90
      days of their acquisition, and the proceeds from the sales are used to repay
      RJTCF s borrowings. Additionally, RJTCF may make short-term loans or advances to
      project partnerships on behalf of the tax credit funds in which it serves as
      managing member or general partner. At September 30, 2006, cash funded to invest
      in either loans or investments in project partnerships was $28.6 million. In
      addition, at September 30, 2006, RJTCF is committed to additional future
      fundings of $7.6 million related to project partnerships that have not yet
      been
      sold to various tax credit funds. 

NOTE
      14 - LEGAL AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS:   

As
      a
      result of the extensive regulation of the securities industry, the Company's
      broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regular reviews and inspections by
      regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations, which can result
      in
      the imposition of sanctions for regulatory violations, ranging from non-monetary
      censure to fines and, in serious cases, temporary or permanent suspension from
      business. In addition, from time to time regulatory agencies and self-regulatory
      organizations institute investigations into industry practices, which can also
      result in the imposition of such sanctions.  

The
      Company is a defendant or co-defendant in various lawsuits and arbitrations
      incidental to its securities business.  Like others in the retail
      securities industry, the Company experienced a significant increase in the
      number of claims seeking recovery due to portfolio losses in the early 2000's.
      During the past year, the number of claims has declined to more historic levels.

As
      previously reported, RJF and   Raymond
      James Financial Services, Inc. ( RJFS )  
      were
      defendants in a series of lawsuits and arbitrations relating to an alleged
      mortgage lending program known as the "Premiere 72" program, that was
      administered by a company owned in part by two individuals who were registered
      as Financial Advisors with RJFS in Houston. In July 2005, RJFS paid
      approximately $24 million in a settlement with approximately 380 claimants
      in
      this litigation, representing approximately two-thirds of the outstanding
      claims. RJFS has settled with an additional 150 claimants for a lump sum of
      $18
      million. These settlements effectively extinguish the Company s liability with
      the exception of one remaining lawsuit in federal court involving one claimant
      family group. 

On
      September 27, 2005, the State of Utah filed a petition for Order of Censure,
      Suspension of License and Imposition of Fine against RJFS related to the alleged
      failure to supervise a former Financial Advisor. The Utah Securities Division
      asked the Division Director to enter an order censuring the Company, suspending
      its license in Utah for 30 days, ordering a fine of $100,000 and requiring
      the
      engagement of an independent consultant to review its supervisory structure
      and
      procedures. In September 2006, RJFS agreed without admitting or denying the
      State s findings, to a fine of $100,000. 

66 

Raymond
      James Yatyrym Menkul Kyymetler A. S., ( RJY ), the Company s Turkish affiliate,
      was assessed for the year 2001 approximately US$6.8 million by the Turkish
      tax
      authorities. The authorities applied a significantly different methodology
      than
      in the prior year s audit. RJY is vigorously contesting most aspects of this
      assessment and has filed an appeal with the Turkish tax court. Audits of 2002
      through 2004 are anticipated and their outcome is unknown in light of the change
      in methodology and the pending litigation. The Company has made provision in
      its
      consolidated financial statements for its estimate of the reasonable potential
      exposure for this matter. As of September 30, 2006, RJY had total capital of
      approximately US$6.4 million, of which the Company owns approximately
      73%. 

The
      Company is contesting the allegations in this and other cases and believes
      that
      there are meritorious defenses in each of these lawsuits and arbitrations. 
In view of the number and diversity of claims against the Company, the number
      of
      jurisdictions in which litigation is pending and the inherent difficulty of
      predicting the outcome of litigation and other claims, the Company cannot state
      with certainty what the eventual outcome of pending litigation or other claims
      will be.  In the opinion of the Company's management, based on current
      available information, review with outside legal counsel, and consideration
      of
      amounts provided for in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
      with
      respect to these matters, ultimate resolution of these matters will not have
      a
      material adverse impact on the Company's financial position or results of
      operations.  However, resolution of one or more of these matters may have a
      material effect on the results of operations in any future period, depending
      upon the ultimate resolution of those matters and upon the level of income
      for
      such period.  

NOTE
      15 - CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS:   

At
      their
      meeting on February 17, 2006, the Company s Board of Directors declared a
      3-for-2 stock split by means of a dividend. The additional shares were
      distributed on March 22, 2006, to shareholders of record on March 8, 2006.
      All
      references in the consolidated financial statements to amounts per share and
      to
      the number of shares outstanding have been restated to give retroactive effect
      to the stock split. 

The
      following table presents information on a monthly basis for purchases of the
      Company s stock for the quarter ended September 30, 2006: 

(1)  
        The
      Company does not have a formal stock repurchase plan. Shares are repurchased
      at
      the discretion of management pursuant to prior authorization from the Board
      of
      Directors. On May 20, 2004, the Board of Directors authorized purchases of
      up to
      $75 million. Since that date 391,514 shares have been repurchased for a total
      of
      $7.4 million, leaving $67.6 million available to repurchase shares. Historically
      the Company has considered such purchases when the price of its stock approaches
      1.5 times book value or when employees surrender shares as payment for option
      exercises. The decision to repurchase shares is subject to cash availability
      and
      other factors. During 2006 and 2005, 189,664 and 5,740 shares were repurchased
      at an average price of $28.97 and $30.81, respectively. During the three months
      ended March 31, 2006, the Company established a trust fund, through its wholly
      owned Canadian subsidiary, that would enable the trust fund to acquire Company
      common stock in the open market to be used to settle restricted stock units
      granted as a retention vehicle for certain employees of the Canadian subsidiary.
      The only purchases of shares during February were for this trust fund. With
      the
      exception of the shares purchased through this trust fund in March 2006, the
      Company only purchased shares during the balance of the year that were
      surrendered by employees as a payment for option exercises. 

67 

NOTE
      16 - OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:   

NOTE
      17 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:   

The
      Company's profit sharing plan and employee stock ownership plan provide certain
      death, disability or retirement benefits for all employees who meet certain
      service requirements. The plans are noncontributory. Contributions by the
      Company, if any, are determined annually by the Company s Board of Directors on
      a discretionary basis and are recognized as compensation cost throughout the
      year. Benefits become fully vested after seven years of qualified service.
      All
      shares owned by the ESOP are included in earnings per share calculations. Cash
      dividends paid to the ESOP are reflected as a reduction of retained earnings.
      The number of shares of RJF common stock held by the ESOP at September 30,
      2006
      and 2005 was approximately 5,370,000 and 5,480,000, respectively. The Company
      also offers a plan pursuant to section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code,
      which provides for the Company to match 100% of the first $500 and 50% of the
      next $500 of compensation deferred by each participant annually. The Company's
      Long Term Incentive Plan ( LTIP ) is a non-qualified deferred compensation plan
      that provides benefits to employees who meet certain compensation or production
      requirements. The Company has purchased and holds life insurance on the lives
      of
      most of those employees participating in the LTIP, to earn a competitive rate
      of
      return for participants and to provide a source of funds available to satisfy
      its obligations under this plan. Contributions to the qualified plans and the
      LTIP contribution for management are made in amounts approved annually by the
      Board of Directors. Compensation expense includes aggregate contributions to
      these plans of $36,912,285, $26,872,875, and $24,009,740 for fiscal years 2006,
      2005, and 2004, respectively. 

68 

Stock-Based
      Compensation Plans  

At
      September 30, 2006, the Company had multiple stock-based employee compensation
      plans, which are described below. The Company issues new shares under all plans
      approved by shareholders. Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS
      No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment . The adoption of this statement did not have a
      material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements given that it
      adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 effective
      September 28, 2002 using the modified prospective application transition method
      within the provisions of SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
      - Transition and Disclosure . Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, benefits
      of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation costs were reported
      as
      operating cash flows. SFAS No. 123R requires excess tax benefits to be reported
      as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid, as part
      of
      operating cash flows. 

Fixed
      Stock Option Plans  

The
      Company has two qualified and two non-qualified fixed stock option plans
      available for grants to employees and members of the Company s Board of
      Directors. Under the 2002 Incentive Stock Option Plan, one of the Company s
      qualified plans, the Company may grant options to its management personnel
      for
      up to 9,000,000 shares of common stock. The 2002 Plan was established to
      replace, on substantially the same terms and conditions, the 1992 Plan. As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the 1992 Plan still has options outstanding. Options are
      granted to key administrative employees and Financial Advisors of Raymond James
        Associates, Inc. who achieve certain gross commission levels. Options are
      exercisable in the 36th to 72nd months following the date of grant and only
      in
      the event that the grantee is an employee of the Company at that time, disabled
      or recently retired. 

As
      noted
      above, the Company has two non-qualified fixed stock option plans. Under the
      first of those plans, the Company may grant up to 854,298 shares of common
      stock
      to the Company's outside directors. Options vest over a three-year period from
      grant date provided that the director is still serving on the Board of the
      Company. Under the Company's second non-qualified stock option plan, the Company
      may grant up to 2,531,250 shares of common stock to key management personnel.
      Option terms are specified in individual agreements and expire on a date no
      later than the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Under all fixed stock option
      plans, the exercise price of each option equals the market price of the
      Company's stock on the date of grant. 

The
      Company s net income for the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005,
      and September 24, 2004 includes $5.6 million, $6.2 million, and $7.4 million,
      respectively, of compensation costs and $281,000, $293,000, and $389,000,
      respectively of income tax benefits related to the Company s four fixed stock
      option plans available for grants to employees and members of its Board of
      Directors.  

These
      amounts may not be representative of future stock-based compensation expense
      since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense straight
      line over the vesting period and additional options may be granted in future
      years. The fair value of each fixed option grant for these plans is estimated
      on
      the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
      following weighted average assumptions used for stock option grants in years
      ended 2006, 2005, and 2004: 

The
      dividend yield assumption is based on the Company s current declared dividend as
      a percentage of the stock price. The expected volatility assumption for the
      current period is based on the Company s historical stock price and is a
      weighted average combining (1) the volatility of the most recent year, (2)
      the
      volatility of the most recent time period equal to the expected lives
      assumption, and (3) the annualized volatility of the price of the Company s
      stock since the late 1980 s. The expected volatility used by the Company in the
      prior periods presented was based on the annualized volatility of the price
      of
      the Company s stock since the late 1980 s. The risk-free interest rate
      assumption is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time
      of
      grant of the options. The expected lives assumption is based on the average
      of
      (1) the assumption that all outstanding options will be exercised at the
      midpoint between their vesting date and full contractual term and (2) the
      assumption that all outstanding options will be exercised at their full
      contractual term.  

69 

A
      summary
      of option activity of the Company's four fixed stock option plans available
      for
      grants to employees and members of its Board of Directors for the year ended
      September 30, 2006 is presented below: 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, there was $13.2 million of total unrecognized compensation
      cost related to stock options for these plans. These costs are expected to
      be
      recognized over a weighted average period of approximately three years. The
      weighted average grant date fair value of stock options granted under these
      plans during the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and
      September 24, 2004 was $7.36 per share, $6.44 per share and $5.60 per share,
      respectively. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for these
      plans during the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and
      September 24, 2004 was $15.3 million, $11.2 million and $5.1 million,
      respectively. The total grant date fair value of stock options vested for these
      plans during the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and
      September 24, 2004 was $5.4 million, $7.0 million and $3.8 million,
      respectively.  

Cash
      received from stock option exercises for these plans for the year ended
      September 30, 2006 was $18.1 million. The actual tax benefit realized for the
      tax deductions from option exercise for these stock option plans was $594,000
      for the year ended September 30, 2006.  

70 

Restricted
      Stock Plan  

Under
      the
      2005 Restricted Stock Plan the Company is authorized to issue up to 2,250,000
      restricted stock units or restricted shares of common stock to employees and
      independent contractors. The 2005 Plan was established to replace, on
      substantially the same terms and conditions, the 1999 Plan.   During
      the three months ended March 31, 2006, this plan was amended to allow the
      issuance of restricted stock units as retention measures for certain employees
      of the Company. In addition, the Company, through its wholly owned Canadian
      subsidiary, established a trust fund which is associated with the 2005 Plan.
      This trust fund was established and funded to enable the trust fund to acquire
      Company common stock in the open market to be used to settle restricted stock
      units granted as a retention vehicle for certain employees of the Canadian
      subsidiary.   Awards
      under this plan may be granted by the Company in connection with initial
      employment or under various retention plans for individuals who are responsible
      for a contribution to the management, growth, and/or profitability of the
      Company. These awards are forfeitable in the event of termination other than
      for
      death, disability or retirement. The compensation cost is recognized over the
      vesting period of the awards and is calculated as the market value of the awards
      on the date of grant. The following activity occurred during the year ended
      September 30, 2006: 

The
      Company s net income for the year ended September 30, 2006 includes $7.5 million
      of compensation costs and $2.9 million of income tax benefits related to the
      Company s Restricted Stock Plan. The Company s net income for the years ended
      September 30, 2005 and September 24, 2004 includes $3.7 million and 3.0 million,
      respectively, of compensation costs and $1.4 million and $1.1 million,
      respectively, of income tax benefits related to this plan.  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, there was $27.4 million of total unrecognized compensation
      cost related to grants under the Company s Restricted Stock Plan. These costs
      are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately
      3.7 years. The total fair value of shares vested under this plan during the
      year
      ended September 30, 2006 was $3.9 million. 

Employee
      Stock Purchase Plan  

Under
      the
      2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Company is authorized to issue up to
      3,375,000 shares of common stock to its full-time employees, nearly all of
      whom
      are eligible to participate. Under the terms of the Plan, employees can choose
      each year to have up to 20% of their annual compensation specified to purchase
      the Company's common stock. Share purchases in any calendar year are limited
      to
      the lesser of 1,000 shares or shares with a market value of $25,000. The
      purchase price of the stock is 85% of the market price on the day prior to
      the
      purchase date. Under the Plan, and its expired predecessor plan, the Company
      sold approximately 379,000, 493,000 and 498,000 shares to employees during
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and September 24, 2004,
      respectively. The compensation cost is calculated as the value of the 15%
      discount from market value and was $1.6 million, $1.4 million and $1.3 million
      during the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and September
      24,
      2004, respectively. 

71 

Stock
      Bonus Plan  

The
      Company's 1999 Stock Bonus Plan authorizes the Company to issue up to 2,250,000
      restricted shares to officers and certain other employees in lieu of cash for
      10% to 20% of annual bonus amounts in excess of $250,000. The determination
      of
      the number of shares to be granted may encompass a discount from market value
      at
      the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Under
      the plan the shares are generally restricted for a three year period, during
      which time the shares are forfeitable in the event of voluntary termination.
      The
      compensation cost is recognized over the three-year vesting period based on
      the
      market value of the shares on the date of grant. The following activity occurred
      during the year ended September 30, 2006: 

The
      Company s net income for the year ended September 30, 2006 includes $5.4 million
      of compensation costs and $2.0 million of income tax benefits related to the
      Company s Stock Bonus Plan. The Company s net income for the years ended
      September 30, 2005 and September 24, 2004 includes $3.5 million and $2.7
      million, respectively, of compensation costs and $1.3 million and $1.0 million,
      respectively, of income tax benefits related to this plan.  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, there was $9.3 million of total unrecognized compensation
      cost related to grants under the Company s Stock Bonus Plan. These costs are
      expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.4
      years. The total fair value of shares vested under this plan during the fiscal
      year ended September 30, 2006 was $3.7 million. 

Employee
      Investment Funds  

Certain
      key employees of the Company participate in the Raymond James Employee
      Investment Funds I and II, which are limited partnerships that invest in the
      merchant banking and venture capital activities of the Company and other
      unaffiliated venture capital limited partnerships. The Company makes
      non-recourse loans to these employees for two thirds of the purchase price
      per
      unit. The loans and applicable interest are to be repaid based solely on the
      distributions from the funds.  

NOTE
      18 - NON-EMPLOYEE STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION:   

Under
      one
      of its non-qualified fixed stock option plans, the Company may grant stock
      options to its independent contractor Financial Advisors. The Company may grant
      up to 5,126,000 shares of common stock to independent contractor Financial
      Advisors under this plan. Options are exercisable five years after grant date
      provided that the Financial Advisors are still associated with the Company.
      Under this fixed stock option plan, the exercise price of each option equals
      the
      market price of the Company's stock on the date of grant. 

72 

Prior
      to
      fiscal 2006, the Company valued stock options awarded to its independent
      contractor Financial Advisors at fair value on the date of grant and amortized
      these options over their expected service period in accordance with SFAS No.
      123. However, after further analysis on the application of SFAS No. 123R, the
      SEC guidance contained in Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107, and
      Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) No. 96-18,  Accounting for Equity
      Instruments That are Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in
      Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services , to these non-employee awards, the
      Company concluded that absent a specific performance commitment, these grants
      are to be measured at their vesting date fair value and their fair value
      estimated at reporting dates prior to that time. The compensation expense
      recognized each period should be based on the most recent estimated value.
      The
      Company s prior recording of compensation expenses for these grants were an
      estimate based on grant date fair value. The current year includes the effect
      of
      the change for the current year. The effect on prior years was not material.
      Further, in accordance with EITF 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial
      Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own Stock,  the
      Company classifies these non-employee awards as liabilities at fair value upon
      vesting, with changes in fair value reported in earnings until these awards
      are
      exercised or forfeited.  

The
      Company s net income for the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005,
      and September 24, 2004 includes $9.7 million, $2.1 million, and $1.9 million,
      respectively, of compensation costs and $3.7 million, $804,000, and $725,000,
      respectively net of income tax benefits related to option grants to its
      independent contractor Financial Advisors.  

The
      fair
      value of each fixed option grant awarded to an independent contractor Financial
      Advisor is estimated on the date of grant and periodically revalued using the
      Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
      assumptions used for fiscal years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004: 

The
      dividend yield assumption is based on the Company s current declared dividend as
      a percentage of the stock price. The expected volatility assumption for the
      current period is based on the Company s historical stock price and is a
      weighted average combining (1) the volatility of the most recent year, (2)
      the
      volatility of the most recent time period equal to the expected lives
      assumption, and (3) the annualized volatility of the price of the Company s
      stock since the late 1980 s. The expected volatility used by the Company in the
      prior periods presented was based on the annualized volatility of the price
      of
      the Company s stock since the late 1980 s. The risk-free interest rate
      assumption is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at each point
      in
      time the options are valued. The expected lives assumption is based on the
      difference between the option s vesting date plus 90 days (the average exercise
      period) and the date of the current reporting period.  

A
      summary
      of option activity of the Company's fixed stock option plan under which awards
      are granted to its independent contractor Financial Advisors for the year ended
      September 30, 2006 is presented below: 

73 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, there was $8.1 million of total unrecognized compensation
      cost related to unvested stock options granted to its independent contractor
      Financial Advisors based on estimated fair value at that date. These costs
      are
      expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately three
      years. The weighted average grant date fair value of stock options granted
      under
      this plan during the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and
      September 24, 2004 was $11.87 per share, $9.51 per share and $5.72 per share,
      respectively. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for this
      plan
      during the years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and September
      24,
      2004 was $5.6 million, $2.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively. The total
      estimated fair value of stock options vested for this plan during the years
      ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and September 24, 2004 was $4.1
      million, $3.5 million and $1.1 million, respectively.  

Cash
      received from stock option exercises for this plan for the year ended September
      30, 2006 was $5.9 million. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax
      deductions from option exercise of awards to its independent contractor
      Financial Advisors was $2.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2006.

NOTE
      19 - REGULATIONS AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS:   

Certain
      broker-dealer subsidiaries of the Company are subject to the requirements of
      the
      Uniform Net Capital Rule (Rule 15c3-1) under the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934. RJA, a member firm of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ), is also
      subject to the rules of the NYSE, whose requirements are substantially the
      same.
      Rule 15c3-1 requires that aggregate indebtedness, as defined, not to exceed
      fifteen times net capital, as defined. Rule 15c3-1 also provides for an
 alternative net capital requirement , which RJA, RJFS and Heritage Fund
      Distributors, Inc. ( HFD ) have elected. It requires that minimum net capital,
      as defined, be equal to the greater of $250,000 or two percent of Aggregate
      Debit Items arising from client transactions. The NYSE may require a member
      firm
      to reduce its business if its net capital is less than four percent of Aggregate
      Debit Items and may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business and
      declaring cash dividends if its net capital is less than five percent of
      Aggregate Debit Items. The net capital position of RJA at September 30, 2006
      and
      September 30, 2005 was as follows: 

At
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, RJFS had no Aggregate Debit Items
      and
      therefore the minimum net capital of $250,000 was applicable. The net capital
      position of RJFS at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 was as
      follows: 

74 

At
      September 30, 2006, HFD had no Aggregate Debit Items and therefore the minimum
      net capital of $250,000 was applicable. The net capital position of HFD at
      September 30, 2006 was as follows: 

RJ
      Ltd.
      is subject to the Minimum Capital Rule (By-Law No. 17 of the Investment Dealers
      Association ("IDA")) and the Early Warning System (By-Law No. 30 of the IDA).
      The Minimum Capital Rule requires that every member shall have and maintain
      at
      all times Risk Adjusted Capital greater than zero calculated in accordance
      with
      Form 1 (Joint Regulatory Financial Questionnaire and Report) and with such
      requirements as the Board of Directors of the IDA may from time to time
      prescribe. Insufficient Risk Adjusted Capital may result in suspension from
      membership in the stock exchanges or the IDA.  

The
      Early
      Warning System is designed to provide advance warning that a member firm is
      encountering financial difficulties. This system imposes certain sanctions
      on
      members who are designated in Early Warning Level 1 or Level 2 according to
      their capital, profitability, liquidity position, frequency of designation
      or at
      the discretion of the IDA. Restrictions on business activities and capital
      transactions, early filing requirements, and mandated corrective measures are
      sanctions that may be imposed as part of the Early Warning System. RJ Ltd.
      was
      not in Early Warning Level 1 or Level 2 at September 30, 2006 or September
      30,
      2005.  

The
      Risk
      Adjusted Capital of RJ Ltd. was CDN $42,841,000 and CDN $25,482,000 September
      30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. 

RJBank
      is
      subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by the
      federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
      initiate certain mandatory - and possibly additional discretionary - actions
      by
      regulators. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework
      for
      prompt corrective action, RJBank must meet specific capital guidelines that
      involve quantitative measures of RJBank's assets, liabilities, and certain
      off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.
      RJBank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative
      judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other
      factors. 

Quantitative
      measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require RJBank
      to
      maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table below) of total
      and
      Tier I Capital (as defined in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as
      defined). Management believes that, as of September 30, 2006 RJBank meets all
      capital adequacy requirements to which it is subject. 

75 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the most recent notification from the Office of Thrift
      Supervision categorized RJBank as  well capitalized  under the regulatory
      framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as  well capitalized ,
      RJBank must maintain minimum total risk-based, Tier I risk-based, and Tier
      I leverage ratios as set forth in the table below. There are no conditions
      or
      events since that notification that management believes have changed RJBank's
      capitalization. 

NOTE
      20 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET
      RISK:   

In
      the
      normal course of business, the Company purchases and sells securities as either
      principal or agent on behalf of its clients. If either the client or
      counterparty fails to perform, the Company may be required to discharge the
      obligations of the nonperforming party. In such circumstances, the Company
      may
      sustain a loss if the market value of the security or futures contract is
      different from the contract value of the transaction. 

The
      Company also acts as an intermediary between broker-dealers and other financial
      institutions whereby the Company borrows securities from one broker-dealer
      and
      then lends them to another. Securities borrowed and securities loaned are
      carried at the amounts of cash collateral advanced and received in connection
      with the transactions. The Company measures the market value of the securities
      borrowed and loaned against the cash collateral on a daily basis. The market
      value of securities borrowed and securities loaned was $1,034,563,000 and
      $1,197,215,000, respectively, at September 30, 2006 and $1,049,897,000 and
      $1,081,328,000, respectively, at September 30, 2005. The contract value of
      securities borrowed and securities loaned was $1,068,102,000 and $1,235,104,000,
      respectively, at September 30, 2006 and $1,079,849,000 and $1,115,595,000,
      respectively, at September 30, 2005. Additional cash is obtained as necessary
      to
      ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized. If another party to
      the
      transaction fails to perform as agreed (for example failure to deliver a
      security or failure to pay for a security), the Company may incur a loss if
      the
      market value of the security is different from the contract amount of the
      transaction. 

The
      Company has also loaned, to brokers-dealers and other financial institutions,
      securities owned by clients and others for which it has received cash or other
      collateral. If a borrowing institution or broker-dealer does not return a
      security, the Company may be obligated to purchase the security in order to
      return it to the owner. In such circumstances, the Company may incur a loss
      equal to the amount by which the market value of the security on the date of
      nonperformance exceeds the value of the collateral received from the financial
      institution or the broker or dealer. 

76 

The
      Company has sold securities that it does not currently own, and will therefore,
      be obligated to purchase such securities at a future date. The Company has
      recorded $94 million and $135 million at September 30, 2006 and September 30,
      2005, respectively, which represents the market value of the related securities
      at such dates. The Company is subject to loss if the market price of those
      securities not covered by a hedged position increases subsequent to fiscal
      year
      end. The Company utilizes short government obligations and equity securities
      to
      economically hedge long proprietary inventory positions. At September 30, 2006,
      the Company had $31,636,000 in short government obligations, $34,023,000 in
      short agency securities and $19,068,000 in short equity securities, which
      represented hedge positions. At September 30, 2005, the Company had $99,549,000
      in short government obligations and $30,256,000 in short equity securities
      which
      represented hedge positions.  

The
      Company enters into security transactions involving forward settlement. The
      Company has recorded transactions with contract values of $2,304,629,000 and
      $1,623,208,000 and market values of $2,297,824,000 and $1,612,514,000 as of
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. Transactions involving
      future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential
      loss
      that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial
      instrument. The Company's exposure to market risk is determined by a number
      of
      factors, including the duration, size, composition and diversification of
      positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market
      volatility. 

The
      majority of the Company's transactions, and consequently, the concentration
      of
      its credit exposure is with clients, broker-dealers and other financial
      institutions in the U.S. These activities primarily involve collateralized
      arrangements and may result in credit exposure in the event that the
      counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations. The Company's exposure
      to credit risk can be directly impacted by volatile securities markets, which
      may impair the ability of counterparties to satisfy their contractual
      obligations. The Company seeks to control its credit risk through a variety
      of
      reporting and control procedures, including establishing credit limits based
      upon a review of the counterparties' financial condition and credit ratings.
      The
      Company monitors collateral levels on a daily basis for compliance with
      regulatory and internal guidelines and requests changes in collateral levels
      as
      appropriate. 

NOTE
      21 - EARNINGS PER SHARE:    

The
      following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
      share
      (in 000 s, except per share amounts):  

(1)    
             
                Diluted
                earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average
                number
                of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common
                shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
                Dilutive potential common shares include stock options, units and
                awards. 

77 

NOTE
      22 - SEGMENT ANALYSIS:   

SFAS
      No.
      131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information ,
      establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments.
      Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which
      separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by
      the
      chief operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to
      allocate resources and in assessing   performance.

The
      Company currently operates through the following seven business segments:
  Private
      Client Group; Capital Markets; Asset Management; RJBank; Emerging Markets;
      Stock
      Loan/Borrow and various corporate investments combined in the "Other" segment.
        The
      business segments are based upon factors such as the services provided and
      the
      distribution channels served and are consistent with how the Company assesses
      performance and determines how to allocate resources throughout the Company
      and
      its subsidiaries. The financial results of the Company's segments are presented
      using the same policies as those described in Note 1,  Summary of Significant
      Accounting Policies . Segment data includes charges allocating corporate
      overhead and benefits to each segment. Intersegment revenues, charges,
      receivables and payables are eliminated between segments upon consolidation.

The
      Private Client Group segment includes the retail branches of the Company's
      broker-dealer subsidiaries located throughout the U.S., Canada and the United
      Kingdom. These branches provide securities brokerage services including the
      sale
      of equities, mutual funds, fixed income products and insurance products to
      their
      individual clients. The segment includes net interest earnings on client margin
      loans and cash balances. Additionally, this segment includes the correspondent
      clearing services that the Company provides to other broker-dealer firms.

The
      Capital Markets segment includes institutional sales and trading in the U.S.,
      Canada and Europe. It provides securities brokerage, trading, and research
      services to institutions with an emphasis on the sale of U.S. and Canadian
      equities and fixed income products. This segment also includes the Company's
      management of and participation in underwritings, merger and acquisition
      services, public finance activities, and the operations of Raymond James Tax
      Credit Funds.  

The
      Asset
      Management segment includes investment portfolio management services of Eagle
      Asset Management, Inc., Awad Asset Management, Inc., and Raymond James
      Consulting Services (RJA s asset management services division), mutual fund
      management by Heritage Asset Management, Inc., private equity management by
      Raymond James Capital, Inc. and RJ Ventures, LLC, and trust services of Raymond
      James Trust Company and Raymond James Trust Company West. In addition to the
      asset management services noted above, this segment also offers fee-based
      programs to clients who have contracted for portfolio management services from
      outside money managers. 

RJBank
      is
      a separate segment, which provides consumer, residential, and commercial loans,
      as well as FDIC-insured deposit accounts to clients of the Company's
      broker-dealer subsidiaries and to the general public. 

The
      Emerging Markets segment includes various joint ventures in Argentina, India,
      Turkey, and Uruguay. These joint ventures operate in securities brokerage,
      investment banking and asset management.  

The Stock Loan/Borrow segment involves the borrowing and lending of securities
      from and to other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other
      counterparties, generally as an intermediary.  

The
      Other
      segment includes various investment and corporate activities of the
      Company. 

In
      fiscal
      year 2005, the Company adopted EITF No. 04-10,  Determining Whether to Aggregate
      Operating Segments that do not meet the Quantitative Thresholds . As a result of
      the adoption of this EITF, three segments were segregated from the previously
      reported Other segment: Emerging Markets, Stock Loan/Borrow, and Other.
      Reclassifications have been made in the segment disclosure for fiscal year
      2004
      to conform to this presentation. 

78 

Information
      concerning operations in these segments of business is as follows (in 000's):

The
      following table presents the Company's total assets on a segment
      basis: 

* 

Includes
                $46 million of goodwill allocated pursuant to SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill
                and
                Other Intangible Assets". 

** 

Includes
                $17 million of goodwill allocated pursuant to SFAS No.
                142. 

The
      Company has operations in the U.S., Canada, Europe and joint ventures in India,
      Turkey,   Argentina
      and Uruguay  .
      Substantially all long-lived assets are located in the U.S. The following table
      represents revenue by country for the years indicated (in 000 s).  

79 

The
      Company has $10.4 million invested in emerging market joint ventures, which
      carry greater risk than amounts invested in developed markets. 

NOTE
        23 - REVISION TO 2005 AND 2004 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
        FLOWS:   

Certain
      amounts in the Company s 2005 and 2004 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
      related to variable interest entities have been reclassified between operating,
      investing and financing activities to comply with SFAS No. 95,  Statement of
      Cash Flows .  

The
      Company s previous presentation was to classify the cash flows from debt
      financing activities of the variable interest entities related to investments
      in
      real estate partnerships which it consolidates (see Note 6 of the Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements for further information) as financing
      activities. The cash flows pertaining to the remaining activities of these
      variable interest entities, including equity contributions to these entities
      by
      unrelated investor members, were classified as operating activities. However,
      upon further review of the application of SFAS No. 95 to the activities of
      these
      variable interest entities, the Company deemed the following cash flow
      reclassifications were appropriate (see table below).  

For
      the
      year ended September 30, 2005, $75.9 million of cash previously classified
      as
      used in operating activities was reclassified to investing activities to reflect
      the cash flow used for investments in real estate partnerships held by variable
      interest entities. Approximately $46.3 million of cash used in financing
      activities was reclassified to investing activities to reflect the cash flow
      used for loans made to unrelated investor members in real estate related
      variable interest entities. Minority interest of $32.1 million related to the
      capital contributed by outside investors to variable interest entities in real
      estate partnerships was reclassified from operating activities to financing
      activities. Cash acquired of $20.8 million related to the Company s initial
      consolidation of variable interest entities related to investments in real
      estate partnerships was also reclassified from operating activities to a
      separate line item. In addition, non-cash assets of $43.2 million and non-cash
      loans payable of $19.7 million were added upon the initial consolidation of
      these variable interest entities.  

For
      the
      year ended September 24, 2004, $22.6 million of cash previously classified
      as
      used in operating activities was reclassified to investing activities to reflect
      the cash flow used for investments in real estate partnerships held by variable
      interest entities. Minority interest of $4.0 million related to the capital
      contributed by outside investors to variable interest entities in real estate
      partnerships was reclassified from operating activities to financing activities.

The
      Company also reclassified certain amounts related to repurchase agreements
      used
      for trading purposes from cash and cash equivalents to securities purchased
      under agreements to resell on its 2005 and 2004 Consolidated Statements of
      Financial Condition and related cash flow activity on its 2005 and 2004
      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (see table below).  

A
      summary
      of the effects of the reclassifications are as follows (in 000 s): 

80 

The
      effect of these reclassifications on the Company s previously reported annual
      consolidated financial statements was not material.     These
      reclassifications had no effect on net income. 

***** 

       QUARTERLY
      FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

      (unaudited) 

(2) 

Due
                to a reclassification of minority interest this amount is not the
                previously reported amount for the
                quarter. 

(3)     
              Due
              to rounding the quarterly results do not add to the total for the
              year.  

81 

Table of Contents  

ITEM
      9.      CHANGES
      IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
      DISCLOSURE    

None. 

Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      9A.      CONTROLS
      AND PROCEDURES    

Disclosure
      controls are procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
      disclosed in the Company's reports   filed  
      under
      the Exchange Act, such as this report, is recorded, processed, summarized,
      and
      reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
      Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that such information is
      accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive
      Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
      regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure
      controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures,
      no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
      absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, as the
      Company's are designed to do, and management necessarily was required to apply
      its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
      and procedures.  

Under
      the
      supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including
      the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company has
      evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures pursuant
      to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this
      report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
      Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures
      are effective. There were no changes in the Company s internal control over
      financial reporting during the year ended September 30, 2006 that have
      materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

REPORT
      OF
      MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

The
      Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
      internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal control
      over
      financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding
      the
      reliability of the Company s financial reporting for external purposes in
      accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
      Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that
      in
      reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company s transactions;
      providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
      for
      preparation of its financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that
      receipts and expenditures of Company assets are made in accordance with
      management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized
      acquisition, use or disposition of Company assets that could have a material
      effect on the Company s financial statements would be prevented or detected on a
      timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
      financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a
      misstatement of the Company s financial statements would be prevented or
      detected.  

Management
      conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
      over financial reporting based on the framework in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework    
      issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
      (COSO).  Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s
      internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30,
      2006. KPMG LLP has audited this assessment of the Company s internal control
      over financial reporting; their report, which expresses unqualified opinions
      on
      management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal
      control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is included
      below. 

82 

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

The
      Board
      of Directors and Shareholders 

      Raymond
      James Financial, Inc.: 

We
      have
      audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Report of
      Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   ,
         that
      Raymond James Financial, Inc. maintained effective internal control over
      financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established
      in
   Internal
      Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
      of the Treadway Commission (COSO).    Raymond
      James Financial, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective
      internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
      effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
      is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the
      effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based
      on our audit. 

We
      conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
      respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
      over
      financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating
      the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
      such
      other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
      that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

A
      company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control
      over
      financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
      to
      the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
      reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
      permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
      detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In
      our
      opinion, management's assessment that Raymond James Financial, Inc. maintained
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
      is
      fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in
   Internal
      Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
      of the Treadway Commission (COSO).    Also,
      in
      our opinion, Raymond James Financial, Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
      based on   criteria
      established in    Internal
      Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee     of
      Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)    .  

We
      also
      have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statements of financial
      condition of Raymond James Financial, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September
      30,
      2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and
      comprehensive income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each
      of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2006, and our report
      dated December 14, 2006       expressed
      an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements   .  

KPMG
      LLP 

Tampa,
      Florida 

      December
      14, 2006 

      Certified
      Public Accountants 

83 

Table of Contents  

ITEM
      9B.      OTHER
      INFORMATION    

None. 

PART
      III   

Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      10.      DIRECTORS
      AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT    

Executive
      officers of the registrant (including its significant subsidiaries) who are
      not
      Directors of the registrant are as follows: 

Jennifer
                C. Ackart  

42 

Controller
                and Chief Accounting Officer 

Richard
                G. Averitt, III 

61 

Chairman
                and CEO - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. 

George
                Catanese 

47 

Senior
                Vice President and Chief Risk Officer 

Tim
                Eitel 

57 

Chief
                Information Officer - Raymond James   Associates 

Jeffrey
                P. Julien  

50 

Senior
                Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Director and/or
                officer of several RJF subsidiaries 

Paul
                L. Matecki 

51 

General
                Counsel, Director of Compliance - RJF 

Richard
                K. Riess  

57 

Executive
                Vice President - RJF, 

CEO
                and Director of both Eagle and Heritage 

Van
                C. Sayler 

51 

Senior
                Vice President - Fixed Income, Raymond James  
                Associates 

Thomas
                R. Tremaine 

50 

Executive
                Vice President - Operations and Administration, Raymond James  
                Associates 

Jeffrey
                E. Trocin 

47 

Executive
                Vice President - Equity Capital Markets, Raymond James  
                Associates 

Dennis
                W. Zank 

52 

President
                - Raymond James   Associates 

The
      information required by Item 10 relating to Directors of the registrant is
      incorporated herein by reference to the registrant's definitive proxy statement
      for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Such proxy statement will be filed
      with the SEC prior to January 11, 2007. 

Table
      of
      Contents   

        ITEMS
      11, 12, 13 AND 14.   

The
      information required by Items 11, 12, 13 and 14 is incorporated herein by
      reference to the registrant's definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual
      Meeting of Shareholders. Such proxy statement will be filed with the SEC prior
      to January 11, 2007. 

84 

PART
      IV   

Table
      of
      Contents  

ITEM
      15.          EXHIBITS,
      FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES    

(a)    
             
                Financial
                Statements and Schedules 

The
      financial statements are set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
      10-K. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either
      not
      required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included. 

(b)     Exhibit
      Listing 

85 

*     Indicates
      a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

86 

Table
      of
      Contents   

         SIGNATURES    

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of St. Petersburg,
      State
      of Florida, on the 14   th   
      day of
      December, 2006. 

RAYMOND
                JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. 

By
                /s/ THOMAS A. JAMES  

Thomas
                A. James, Chairman 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
      capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Signature  

Title  

Date  

/s/
                THOMAS A. JAMES  

Chairman
                and Chief  

December
                14, 2006 

Thomas
                A. James  

Executive
                Officer, Director 

/s/
                CHET B. HELCK  

President
                and Chief Operating Officer, Director 

December
                14, 2006 

Chet
                B. Helck  

/s/
                FRANCIS S. GODBOLD 

Vice
                Chairman and Director  

December
                14, 2006 

Francis
                S. Godbold 

/s/
                JEFFREY P. JULIEN 

Senior
                Vice President - Finance  

December
                14, 2006 

Jeffrey
                P. Julien  

and
                Chief Financial Officer 

/s/
                JENNIFER C. ACKART 

Controller
                and Chief Accounting Officer 

December
                14, 2006 

Jennifer
                C. Ackart  

/s/
                ANGELA M. BIEVER 

Director

December
                14, 2006 

Angela
                M. Biever 

/s/
                H. WILLIAM HABERMEYER 

Director

December
                14, 2006 

H.
                William Habermeyer 

/s/
                PAUL W. MARSHALL 

Director

December
                14, 2006 

Paul
                W. Marshall  

/s/
                PAUL C. REILLY 

Director

December
                14, 2006 

Paul
                C. Reilly 

/s/
                KENNETH A. SHIELDS 

Director

December
                14, 2006 

Kenneth
                A. Shields 

/s/
                HARDWICK SIMMONS  

Director

December
                14, 2006 

Hardwick
                Simmons 

87 

<EX-10.9.2>
 2
 ex1092.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.9.2

Exhibit 10.9.2

Return
      to 10-K 

Exhibit
      10.9.2  

        AMENDMENT
      NO. 1 AND WAIVER   

TO   

AMENDED
      AND RESTATED REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT   

This
      AMENDMENT NO. 1 AND WAIVER TO AMENDED AND RESTATED REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT
      (    Amendment
      No. 1    )
      is
      dated as of October 11, 2006 by and among RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC., a
      Florida corporation (the     Borrower    ),
      the
      Lenders named on the signature page hereto (the     Lenders    ),
      and
      JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., individually and as administrative agent (the
    Agent    )
      for
      the Lenders. 

W
      I T N E
      S S E T H: 

WHEREAS,
      the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders are parties to that certain Amended
      and
      Restated Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 13, 2005 (the
    Credit       Agreement    
      and 

WHEREAS,
      the parties desire to make certain modifications to the Credit Agreement,
      including an extension of the Facility Termination Date to October 9, 2007,
      and
      to waive compliance with certain provisions of the Credit Agreement prior to
      their amendment herein. 

NOW,
      THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained, and for other
      good
      and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the
      parties hereby agree as follows: 

I.     
             
                  Defined
                Terms   

Capitalized
      terms used but not defined herein are used with the meanings assigned to them
      in
      the Credit Agreement. 

II.     
             
                  Amendments
                to the Credit
                Agreement   

2.1.      The
      definition of  Eurodollar Rate  in Article I of the Credit Agreement is hereby
      amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

Eurodollar
      Rate  means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance for the relevant Interest
      Period, the sum of (a) the quotient of (i) the Eurodollar Base Rate applicable
      to such Interest Period, divided by (ii) one minus the Reserve Requirement
      (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Interest Period, plus (b) (i) 0.75%
      per annum during any period when the outstanding principal amount of the
      Advances is less than 50% of the Aggregate Commitment and (ii) 0.875% per annum
      during any period when the outstanding principal amount of the Advances is
      greater than or equal to 50% of the Aggregate Commitment. 

2.2.      The
      definition of  Facility Termination Date  in Article I of the Credit Agreement
      is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

Facility
      Termination Date  means October 9, 2007 or any later date as may be specified as
      the Facility Termination Date in accordance with    Section
      2.18   
      or any
      earlier date on which the Aggregate Commitment is reduced to zero or otherwise
      terminated pursuant to the terms hereof.  

2.3.      The
      definition of  Fiscal Year  in Article I of the Credit Agreement is hereby
      amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

Fiscal
      Year  means the twelve-month accounting period ending on the last day of
      September of each year.  

2.4.      The
      proviso clause at the end of the definition of  Investment  in Article I of the
      Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  as heretofore
      conducted  so that such clause reads in its entirety as follows: 

provided   ,
         however   ,
      that in
      regard to clauses (b), (c) and (d),  Investment  shall not include any such
      securities, accounts or instruments owned or acquired by the Borrower or its
      Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of its business, including but not limited
      to the market making activities of RJA.  

2.5.      The
      second sentence of Section 2.7 (up to and including the colon) is hereby amended
      to read as follow: 

The
      Borrower shall give the Agent irrevocable telephone notice not later than 11:00
      a.m. (New York time) on the Borrowing Date of each Floating Rate Advance and
      three Business Days before the Borrowing Date for each Eurodollar Advance,
      such
      notice to be promptly confirmed in writing substantially in the form of
   Exhibit
      A   
      (a
    Borrowing/Election
      Notice    ),
      specifying:  

2.6.      Section
      5.8 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Litigation and Contingent Obligations  is
      hereby amended by inserting the following clause at the beginning of the first
      sentence of such Section: 

Except
      as described in the  Legal Proceedings  section of the Borrower s Exchange Act
      reports filed with the Commission during the twelve-month period ended June
      30,
      2006, there is no litigation . . .  

2.7.      Section
      5.13 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Investment Company  is hereby amended in
      its entirety to read as follows: 

5.13.
         Investment
      Company   .
      Neither
      the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is, or after giving effect to any Advance will
      be, subject to registration or regulation under (i) the Investment Company
      Act
      of 1940, as amended, or (ii) any other foreign, federal or state statute or
      regulation which limits its ability to incur indebtedness or consummate the
      transactions contemplated hereby.  

2.8.      Section
      5.16 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Insurance  is hereby amended in its
      entirety to read as follows: 

5.16.
         Insurance   .
      The
      Borrower and its Subsidiaries maintain with financially sound and reputable
      insurance companies insurance on their Property in such amounts and covering
      such risks as is reasonably consistent with sound business practice, except
      to
      the extent that wind and flood insurance coverage is not available on
      commercially reasonable terms.  

2.9.      Subsection
      (a) of Section 6.1 of the Credit Agreement entitled "Financial Reporting" is
      hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

(a)
      As
      soon as practicable and in any event within 75 days after the close of each
      of
      its Fiscal Years, an unqualified audit report from KPMG LLP,
      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Ernst   Young LLP or Deloitte   Touche LLP
      prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles on a consolidated
      and consolidating basis (consolidating statements need not be certified by
      such
      accountants) for itself and its Subsidiaries, including balance sheets as of
      the
      end of such period and related statements of income, changes in shareholders'
      equity and cash flows, and accompanied by any management letter prepared by
      said
      accountants (when available).  

2.10.      Section
      6.6 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Insurance  is hereby amended in its
      entirety to read as follows: 

6.6.
         Insurance   .
      The
      Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, maintain with financially
      sound and reputable insurance companies insurance in such amounts and covering
      such risks as is reasonably consistent with sound business practice, except
      to
      the extent that wind and flood insurance coverage is not available on
      commercially reasonable terms, and the Borrower will furnish to the Agent and
      any Lender upon request full information as to the insurance
      carried.  

2.11.      Section
      6.10 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Ownership of Subsidiaries  is hereby
      amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

6.10.
         Ownership
      of Subsidiaries   .
      The
      Borrower will continue to own, directly or indirectly, beneficially and of
      record, free and clear of all Liens and restrictions, at least 75% of the
      outstanding shares of capital stock of each of RJA and RJFS.  

2.12.      Subsection
      (h) of Section 6.11 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Indebtedness  is hereby
      amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

(h)
      Indebtedness of any Subsidiary for borrowed money from the Borrower which is
      not
      subordinated by its terms to other Indebtedness of such Subsidiary, except
      for
      Indebtedness not exceeding CDN. $155,000,000 of Raymond James Ltd./Raymond
      James
      Lt e. (Canadian Subsidiary) for borrowed money from the Borrower (or an
      Affiliate of the Borrower) which is subordinated by its terms to other
      Indebtedness of such Subsidiary;  

2.13.      Subsection
      (i) of Section 6.11 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Indebtedness  is hereby
      amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

(i)
      Additional mortgage Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding
      $50,000,000, the proceeds of which are used for the expansion of the Borrower s
      corporate headquarters;  

2.14.      Section
      6.11 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Indebtedness  is hereby further amended
      by deleting existing subsection (k), deleting the word  and  at the end of
      subsection (j), and inserting the following new subsections (k) and (l) to
      read
      as follows: 

(k)
      Indebtedness related to investments in real estate partnerships owed by variable
      interest entities of the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding
      the value of associated assets reflected on the Borrower's balance sheet;
      and 

(l)
      Unsecured Indebtedness not otherwise permitted by this    Section       6.11   
      in an
      aggregate principal amount not exceeding $10,000,000.  

2.15.      Clause
      (a) of Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Merger  is hereby amended
      in its entirety to read as follows: 

(a)
      a
      Wholly-Owned Subsidiary may merge or consolidate into the Borrower or any
      Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower,  

2.16.      The
      phrase  Obligations of, or fully guaranteed by, the United States of America; 
in subsection (b) of Section 6.14 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Investments
      and Acquisitions  is hereby amended to read as follows: 

Obligations
      of, or fully guaranteed by, the United States of America or the Commonwealth
      of
      Canada;  

2.17.      Subsection
      (c) of Section 6.14 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Investments and
      Acquisitions  is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

(c)
      Publicly traded securities and private equity participations, including equity
      investments in commercial aircraft leveraged lease transactions;   

2.18.      Section
      6.14 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Investments and Acquisitions  is hereby
      further amended by deleting the word  and  at the end of subsection (f),
      substituting a semi-colon for the period at the end of subsection (g), and
      adding the following subsections (h) and (i) to Section 6.14 as
      follows: 

(h)
      Investments in (i) mortgage loans not exceeding $100,000,000 in aggregate
      principal amount outstanding to finance low income housing projects in which
      the
      tax credit funds sponsored by Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. have equity
      investments (such mortgage loans to be in addition to the guarantees or loans
      permitted pursuant to    Sections       6.11(j)   
      and
   6.15(d)   
      hereof),
      and (ii) loans to Pine Creek Healthcare Capital, Inc. to purchase and carry
      debt
      obligations not exceeding $50,000,000 in aggregate principal amount outstanding
      that are issued to fund rural health care facilities and associated equipment;
      and  

(i)
      Investment in a Canadian trust fund established and funded to acquire Borrower
      common stock in the open market in order to make in-kind settlements of
      restricted stock units granted as bonuses to certain employees of Raymond James
      Ltd./Raymond James Lt e.   

2.19.      Subsection
      (e) of Section 6.15 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Contingent Obligations  is
      hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

(e)
      guarantees by the Borrower relating to the net performance obligations of RJ
      Capital Services, Inc. owed to counterparties under interest rate and credit
      default swap transactions documented under the ISDA (International Swaps Dealer
      Association) form Master Agreement and applicable Addenda; and  

2.20.      Clause
      (b) of Section 6.18 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Change in Corporate
      Structure; Fiscal Year  is hereby amended in its entirety to read as
      follows: 

(b)
      change its Fiscal Year to end on any date other than the last day of September
      of each year.  

2.21.      Clause
      (a)(iii) of Section 6.19 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Inconsistent
      Agreements  is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

(iii)
      repay loans or advances from the Borrower (except to the extent repayment of
      such loans or advances is permitted to be subordinated pursuant to    Section
      6.11(h)   
      hereof)
      or  

2.22.      Section
      6.20.1 of the Credit Agreement entitled  Minimum Tangible Net Worth  is hereby
      amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

6.20.1.
         Minimum
      Tangible Net Worth   .
      The
      Borrower on a consolidated basis with its Subsidiaries at all times after the
      date hereof shall maintain Tangible Net Worth of not less than (i)
      $1,105,000,000 plus (ii) 50% of cumulative Net Income (if positive) earned
      after
      June 30, 2006.   

2.23.      Section
      6.20.5 of the Credit Agreement entitled  RJA/RJFS Excess Net Capital  is hereby
      amended in its entirety to read as follows: 

6.20.5.
         RJA/RJFS
      Excess Net Capital   .
      The
      Borrower shall cause RJA and RJFS at all times, except for certain limited
      periods totalling not more than 20 days during any Fiscal Year when equity
      and/or debt underwriting commitments result in a temporary reduction of Excess
      Net Capital, to have combined Excess Net Capital of not less than
      $200,000,000.  

2.24.      Schedules
      I and II to the Credit Agreement are hereby amended in their entirety as set
      forth in Annex A to this Amendment No. 1. 

III.     
             
                  Waiver   

The
      Borrower has requested the Lenders to waive non-compliance with three
      pre-existing provisions of the Credit Agreement (prior to modification by this
      Amendment No.1) constituting a Default or Unmatured Default as follows: (a)
      Indebtedness related to investments in real estate partnerships owed by variable
      interest entities of the Borrower that has been outstanding since September
      30,
      2005 was not previously permitted under Section 6.11 of the Credit Agreement
      (now permitted by the amendment effected by Section 2.14 of this Amendment
      No.
      1); (b) the accountants' certificate previously specified in Subsection
      6.1(a)(ii) of the Credit Agreement to accompany year-end audit reports (deleted
      as a requirement pursuant to Section 2.9 of this Amendment No.1) was not
      furnished by the Borrower for the Fiscal Year ended September 30, 2005; and
      (c)
      as of October 1, 2006, the Borrower s Canadian Subsidiary will have outstanding
      Indebtedness for borrowed money from the Borrower which is subordinated to
      other
      Indebtedness of such Subsidiary (now permitted by the amendments effected by
      Sections 2.12 and 2.21 of this Amendment No. 1). The Lenders hereby agree to
      waive any Default or Unmatured Default caused solely by the Borrower's failure
      to comply with the foregoing provisions prior to the effectiveness of this
      Amendment No.1. This waiver is limited to its terms and shall not constitute
      a
      waiver of any other term, condition, representation or covenant under the Credit
      Agreement or any other Loan Document. 

IV.     
             
                  Borrower
                Representations   

In
      order
      to induce the Lenders and the Agent to execute and deliver this Amendment
      No. 1, the Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that, both
      before and after giving effect to this Amendment No. 1, (i) there exists no
      Default or Unmatured Default on the date hereof, (ii) each of the
      representations and warranties contained in Article V of the Credit Agreement
      is
      true and correct on the date hereof (it being understood that the Borrower
      makes
      the representations and warranties contained in Sections 5.9 (Schedule I),
      5.13
      and 5.16 in the form amended by this Amendment No. 1; and further, as to the
      second sentence of Section 5.7, the Borrower represents that the Internal
      Revenue Service has completed its audit of the Borrower s U.S. income tax
      returns on a consolidated basis through the Fiscal Year ending September 26,
      2003), (iii) the execution and delivery by the Borrower of this Amendment No.
      1
      have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate proceedings, (iv) this
      Amendment No. 1 and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party
      constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable
      in accordance with their respective terms, (v) no authorization or approval
      of,
      and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or other Person
      is
      required for the due execution, delivery or performance of this Amendment No.
      1
      by the Borrower, and (vi) no material adverse change in the business, Property,
      condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Borrower
      and
      its Subsidiaries taken as a whole has occurred since September 30,
      2005. 

V.     
             
                  Effectiveness   

This
      Amendment No. 1 shall become effective as of the date first above written upon
      fulfillment of the following conditions (and when notice thereof shall have
      been
      given by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders): 

(i)      the
      Agent
      shall have received counterparts of this Amendment No. 1 duly executed by the
      Borrower and the Lenders;  

(ii)      the
      Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent a certificate of Borrower s Secretary
      and a certificate of Borrower s Chief Financial Officer in form and substance
      satisfactory to the Agent and its counsel; and 

(iii)      all
      accrued fees and expenses of the Agent (including the accrued fees and expenses
      of counsel to the Agent invoiced on or prior to the date hereof) shall have
      been
      paid by the Borrower. 

VI.     
             
                  Ratification   

Except
      as
      specifically provided herein, (a) the Credit Agreement shall otherwise remain
      unaltered and in full force and effect, and the respective terms, conditions
      and
      covenants thereof are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects as
      originally executed, and (b) except for the limited waiver set forth in Article
      III above, this Amendment No. 1 shall not operate as a waiver of any right,
      power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under any of the Loan Documents.
      Upon
      the effectiveness of this Amendment No. 1, each reference in the Credit
      Agreement to  this Agreement ,  hereof ,  herein ,  hereunder  or words of like
      import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended
      hereby. 

VII.     
             
                  Governing
                Law   

THIS
      AMENDMENT NO. 1 SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE
      INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS
      APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS. 

VIII.     
             
                  Execution
                in Counterparts   

This
      Amendment No. 1 may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which
      when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of
      which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 

[signature
      pages follow] 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agents have executed this
      Amendment No. 1 as of the date first above written. 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. 

By:                

Title:                

Address
      for Notices: 

      880
      Carillon Parkway 

      St.
      Petersburg, Florida 33716 

      Attention:     Jeffrey
      P. Julien 

      Telephone:     (727)
      567-5021 

      Facsimile:     (727)
      573-8915 

Commitment:                    JPMORGAN
      CHASE BANK, N.A., 

      $40,000,000                       Individually
      and as Administrative Agent 

By:                   

Title:                   

Address
      for General Notices: 

      Financial
      Institutions-Broker-Dealer Group 

      277
      Park
      Avenue 

      23   rd   
      Floor 

      New
      York,
      NY 10172 

      Attention:     Pandora
      Setian  

      Telephone:     (212)
      622-5088 

      Facsimile:     (646)
      534-1720 

Address
      for Funding Matters: 

      Loan
      and
      Agency Services 

      1111
      Fannin, 10   th   
      Floor 

      Houston,
      TX 77002 

      Attention:     Carla
      M.
      Kinney 

      Telephone:     (713)
      750-3560 

      Facsimile:     (713)
      750-2223 

Commitment:                    CITIBANK,
      N.A., 

      $40,000,000                    Individually
      and as Syndication Agent 

By:                   

Title:                   

Address
      for Notices: 

      388
      Greenwich Street 

      8   th   
      Floor 

      New
      York,
      New York 10013 

      Attention:     Michael
      Mauerstein 

      Telephone:     (212)
      816-3431 

      Facsimile:     (212)
      816-5325 

Commitment:                    THE
      BANK
      OF NEW YORK, 

      $40,000,000                    Individually
      and as Co-Documentation Agent 

By:                   

Title:                   

Address
      for Notices: 

      One
      Wall
      Street 

      41   st   
      Floor 

      New
      York,
      New York 10286 

      Attention:     John
      Templeton 

      Telephone:     (212)
      635-6823 

      Facsimile:     (212)
      809-9566 

Commitment:                    WELLS
      FARGO BANK, NATIONAL  

      $40,000,000                      ASSOCIATION, 

                    Individually
      and as Co-Documentation Agent 

By:                   

Title:                   

Address
      for Notices: 

      Wells
      Fargo Center 

      Sixth
      and
      Marquette 

      Minneapolis,
      MN 55479 

      Attention:
      Financial Institutions Division 

      Telephone:     (612)
      667-9293 

      Facsimile:     (612)
      667-7251  

Commitment:                    CALYON
      NEW YORK BRANCH, 

      $40,000,000                    Individually
      and as Co-Documentation Agent 

By:                   

Title:                   

By:                   

Title:                   

Address
      for Notices: 

      1301
      Avenue of the Americas 

      New
      York,
      NY 10019 

      Attention:     Seth
      Ruffer  

      Telephone:     (212)
      261-7410 

      Facsimile:     (212)
      261-3401 

CHI:1783759.6  

ANNEX
      A  

      Schedule
      I 

Raymond
      James Financial, Inc. 

Material
      Subsidiaries   * 

Name 

Jurisdiction
                of Organization 

Eagle
                Asset Management, Inc. 

Florida 

Heritage
                Asset Management, Inc. 

Florida 

Planning
                Corporation Of America 

Florida 

Raymond
                James   Associates, Inc. 

Florida 

Raymond
                James Bank, FSB 

U.S.A. 

Raymond
                James Financial Services, Inc. 

Florida 

Raymond
                James Ltd./Raymond James   Lt e  . 

Canada 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. 

Florida 

Raymond
                James Trust Company 

Florida 

RJ
                Capital Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

______________ 

      *
      All
      Material Subsidiaries are 100% directly or indirectly owned by the
      Borrower. 

Schedule
      II 

Raymond
      James Financial, Inc. 

Schedule
      of Existing Indebtedness  

Liabilities
      Identified on the Borrower s Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2006,  

      As
      Increased or Decreased in the Ordinary Course of Business Since That
      Date 

Raymond
      James   Associates, Inc. (RJA) $70 million mortgage indebtedness on the
      corporate headquarters. 

RJA
      and
      Raymond James Ltd./Raymond James Lt e. secured and unsecured lines of credit
      used to facilitate the broker-dealer business. 

Stadium
      Naming Rights (original obligation dated July 26, 1998) as extended through
      December 31, 2015 total $33,120,233.  

Guarantees
      with respect to settlement of securities transactions by its own offices or
      foreign joint ventures extended to customers of, lenders to or clearing agencies
      for, its own offices, or foreign joint  

      ventures. 

Raymond
      James Bank secured FHLB advances to provide traditional banking products and
      services. 

Raymond
      James Financial Inc. has committed to up to $50.0 million to 36 different
      independent venture capital or private equity partnerships. 

Raymond
      James Financial, Inc. has committed to guarantee swap contracts, as requested,
      entered into by its subsidiary Raymond James Capital Services, Inc. 

Long-term
      lease agreements and short-term equipment leases of $46.5 million.  

</EX-10.9.2>

<EX-10.11>
 3
 ex1011.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.11

Exhibit 10.11

Return to 10-K 

Exhibit 10.11  

       AMENDED
      AND RESTATED  

       RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL  

       LONG-TERM
      INCENTIVE PLAN  

PREAMBLE  

Raymond
      James Financial, Inc. (the  Company ) has previously established the Raymond
      James Financial Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), effective October 1,
      2000, for a select group of management or highly compensated employees in order
      to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel for the Company and its
      Related Employers. 

This
      Plan
      is being redesigned and restated in this document, effective as of January
      1,
      2005, as a result of changes made by the adoption of Code Section 409A and
      otherwise. Also, Accounts held for certain former participants in this Plan
      were
      spun off into a newly created Raymond James Financial Long-Term Bonus Plan
      after
      September 30, 2005 and this Plan will no longer govern such spun off Accounts
      and benefits. However, this Amendment and Restatement shall apply to such spun
      off Accounts and benefits from the Effective Date until the effective date
      of
      the Long-Term Bonus Plan. 

This
      Plan
      was amended in December 2005 (which amendment will not be affected by this
      Amendment and Restatement) to permit, among other things, each continuing
      Participant in this Plan who, prior to January 1, 2005, made any deferral
      election under the Plan, to make new payment elections prior to December 31,
      2005 (both as to the form and timing of a payment) with respect to amounts
      previously deferred, each such election to be consistent with the provisions
      of
      the Plan as they may exist as of January 1, 2005 (after giving effect to this
      and any other retroactive amendments to the Plan). All such new elections shall
      be consistent with the terms and conditions of this Amendment and Restatement
      and shall be governed by this Amendment and Restatement. 

ARTICLE
      I  

        Definitions   

(a)            Account      
         shall
      mean a Participant s Employer Contribution Account as described in Article
      IV. 

(b)            Code      
         shall
      mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time.
      Reference to a specific Code Section shall include any successor
      provision. 

(c)            Committee      
         shall
      mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the
      Company. 

(d)            Company      
         shall
      mean Raymond James Financial, Inc., a Florida corporation, and its successor
      or
      successors. 

(e)            Disability      
         shall
      mean a disability within the meaning of the provisions of the Raymond James,
      Financial, Inc. Long-Term Disability Plan; provided, however, that such event
      is
      also an event of disability within the meaning of Code Section
      409A. 

(f)            Early
      Retirement Date      
         shall
      mean, with respect to a Participant, the date that is the earliest of (1) the
      date at or after the Participant attains age 55 when the number of the
      Participant s years of service plus the age of the Participant equals 75 or (2)
      the date at or after the Participant attains age 60 when the Participant has
      at
      least five years of service. For these purposes,  years of service  shall be
      determined in accordance with the vesting provisions of the Raymond James
      Financial, Inc. and Affiliates Profit Sharing Plan as it may exist from time
      to
      time. 

(g)            Effective
      Date         
      of this
      Amendment and Restatement shall be January 1, 2005. 

(h)            Normal
      Retirement Date      
         shall
      mean, with respect to a Participant, the date on which the Participant attains
      age 65. 

(i)            Participant      
         shall
      mean any employee of the Company or a Related Employer who is covered by this
      Plan as provided in Article III. 

(j)            Period
      of Credited Service      
         shall
      mean the period from October 1 of one year through September 30 of the next
      year. 

(k)            Plan      
         shall
      mean the Raymond James Financial Long-Term Incentive Plan as set forth herein
      and as it may be amended from time to time. 

(l)            Plan
      Administrator      
         shall
      mean the Committee or its designee(s). 

(m)            Plan
      Year      
         shall
      mean the 12-month period ending on the last day of September. 

(n)            Related
      Employer      
         shall
      mean a corporation, limited liability company or other business entity that
      is
      affiliated with the Company, that has elected to adopt the Plan, and that the
      Company, in its sole discretion, allows to participate in the Plan as a
      participating employer. 

(o)            Separation
      from Service      
         shall
      mean the termination of employment of a Participant (whether for death,
      disability, retirement or otherwise) with his or her Service Recipient if such
      termination qualifies as a separation from service within the meaning of Code
      Section 409A. 

(p)            Service
      Recipient      
         shall
      mean a Participant s employer and all other corporations and other persons with
      whom such employer would be considered as a single employer under Code Section
      414(b) or Code Section 414(c). 

(q)            Specified
      Employee      
         shall
      mean a Participant who is a key employee (as defined in Code Section 416(i)
      (without regard to Code Section 416(i)(5)) of a Service Recipient at any time
      during the 12-month period ending on September 30 as long as any stock of the
      Service Recipient is publicly traded on an established securities market or
      otherwise. Any such person shall be treated as a Specified Employee during
      the
      12-month period beginning on January 1 following such September 30. 

ARTICLE
      II  

        Administration   

(a)       Plan
      Administrator    . 

(1)     The
      Plan
      Administrator shall have complete control and discretion to manage the operation
      and administration of the Plan. Not in limitation, but in amplification of
      the
      foregoing, the Plan Administrator shall have the following powers: 

(A)     to
      determine all questions relating to the eligibility of employees to participate
      or continue to participate; 

(B)     to
      maintain all records and books of account necessary for the administration
      of
      the Plan; 

(C)     to
      interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make and to publish such
      interpretive or procedural rules as are not inconsistent with the Plan and
      applicable law; 

(D)     to
      compute, certify and arrange for the payment of benefits to which any
      Participant or beneficiary is entitled; 

(E)     to
      process claims for benefits under the Plan by Participants or
      beneficiaries; 

(F)     to
      engage
      consultants and professionals to assist the Plan Administrator in carrying
      out
      its duties under this Plan; 

(G)     to
      develop and maintain such instruments as may be deemed necessary from time
      to
      time by the Plan Administrator to facilitate payment of benefits under the
      Plan;
      and 

(H)     to
      establish such accounting procedures as are necessary to implement the
      provisions of the Plan. 

(2)     The
      Plan
      Administrator may designate a committee, one or more employees or other
      individuals, one or more Company positions, and/or other designee(s), to assist
      the Plan Administrator in the administration of the Plan and the performance
      of
      the duties required of the Plan Administrator hereunder. 

(b)       Plan
      Administrator s Authority    .
      The
      Plan Administrator may consult with Company officers, legal and financial
      advisers to the Company and others, but nevertheless the Plan Administrator
      shall have the full authority and discretion to act, and the Plan
      Administrator s actions shall be final and conclusive on all
      parties. 

ARTICLE
      III  

        Eligibility
      and Participation   

(a)       Eligibility    .
      The
      Company or a Related Employer shall determine those of its employees who are
      eligible to participate in the Plan, subject to standards of eligibility as
      established by the Committee from time to time and subject to the requirement
      that the Plan be maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred
      compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees
      (within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Security Act, as amended).
      Accordingly, an employee of the Company or a Related Employer who, in the
      opinion of the Company or a Related Employer based upon the then applicable
      Committee-established guidelines, has contributed or is expected to contribute
      significantly to the growth and successful operations of the Company or a
      Related Employer, who is a member of a select group of management or highly
      compensated employees, and who meets any additional criteria for eligibility
      established by the Committee will be eligible to become a
      Participant. 

(b)       Participation    .
      An
      eligible employee shall become a Participant in the Plan at such time as a
      contribution is credited to the Account of such person in accordance with the
      provisions of Article IV. 

ARTICLE
      IV  

        Company
      Contributions, Participant Accounts   

        and
      Investment of Accounts   

(a)       Discretionary
      Contributions     .
         The
      Company or a Related Employer may, in accordance with the provisions of Article
      III, determine to credit an eligible employee with a discretionary contribution
      with respect to a Plan Year. The amount to be contributed shall be determined
      by
      the Committee in its sole discretion. 

(b)       Participant
      Accounts    . 

(1)     Amounts,
      if any, credited to a Participant pursuant to this Plan shall be recorded by
      the
      Plan Administrator in an Employer Contribution Account maintained in the name
      of
      the Participant. A separate Account shall be maintained for each Plan Year
      that
      a person receives a contribution. 

(2)     All
      amounts that are credited to a Participant s Account shall be credited solely
      for purposes of accounting and computation, and no fund shall be set side with
      respect thereto, except as may be provided in paragraph (e) below. A Participant
      shall not have any interest in or right to any such Account at any
      time. 

(3)     The
      Plan
      shall be unfunded for all federal tax purposes. All amounts recorded in an
      Account, a Participant s interest in the Plan and any amounts provided under the
      Plan shall constitute an unsecured promise by the Company or a Related Employer
      to pay benefits in the future, and a Participant shall have the status of a
      general unsecured creditor of the Company or Related Employer. All amounts
      credited to a Participant s Accounts will remain as general assets of the
      Company or a Related Employer and shall remain subject to the claims of the
      Company s or the Related Employer s creditors until such time as the amounts are
      distributed to the Participant. 

(c)       Crediting
      and Debiting of Accounts    . 

(1)     As
      provided in paragraph (b)(1) above, a Participant s Account shall be credited
      with the amounts contributed to the Plan on behalf of the Participant with
      respect to a Plan Year. The Account thereafter shall be credited (or debited)
      from time to time based upon the Participant s allocable share of the return
      (including any negative return) on the investment or deemed investment of the
      amounts credited to the Participant s Account (which investments or deemed
      investments shall be determined by the Plan Administrator). Upon distribution
      or
      forfeiture of amounts in the Account, the Account shall be debited with the
      amount of the distribution or forfeiture, as the case may be. 

(2)     The
      Plan
      Administrator shall establish such rules and procedures as are necessary for
      purposes of crediting and debiting the Participants  Accounts from time to time.
      Without limitation on the foregoing, lump sum distributions shall be based
      on
      the value of the Accounts of a Participant as of the date of distribution or
      a
      record date that is (i) established by the Committee, (ii) applied on a
      consistent and nondiscriminatory basis, (iii) on or after the date of the event
      giving rise to the distribution, and (iv) no more than sixty (60) days prior
      to
      date of distribution. 

(d)       Account
      Valuation    . 

(1)     The
      value
      of a Participant s Account(s) shall be determined by the Plan Administrator, and
      the Plan Administrator may establish such accounting procedures as are necessary
      to account for the Participant s interest in the Plan. Each Participant s
      Account(s) shall be valued as of the last day of each Plan Year and/or such
      other date or dates as may be determined from time to time by the Plan
      Administrator. 

(2)     At
      least
      annually, the Plan Administrator shall furnish each Participant with a statement
      of the value of his or her Account(s). 

(e)         Establishment
      of Trust    . 

(1)     The
      Company and/or one or more Related Employers may, but are not required to,
      establish a trust substantially in conformity with the terms of the model trust
      described in Revenue Procedure 92-64 to assist in meeting their obligations
      to
      Participants under this Plan. Except as provided in subparagraph (4) below,
      any
      such trust shall be established in such manner so as to permit the assets
      transferred to the trust and the earnings thereon to be used by the trustee
      solely to satisfy the liability of the Company or a Related Employer in
      accordance with the Plan and to preclude the use of such assets for any other
      purpose. 

(2)     The
      Company or a Related Employer, in its sole discretion, and from time to time,
      may make contributions to the trust. 

(3)     The
      powers, duties and responsibilities of the trustee shall be as set forth in
      the
      trust agreement and nothing contained in the Plan, either expressly or by
      implication, shall impose any additional powers, duties or responsibilities
      upon
      the trustee. 

(4)     Unless
      otherwise paid by the Company or a Related Employer, all benefits under the
      Plan
      and expenses chargeable to the Plan and the trust, if one has been established,
      shall be paid from the trust. 

ARTICLE
      V  

        Vesting
      and Payment of Benefits under the Plan   

(a)       General
      Vesting Rules     .
         A
      Participant shall become 100% vested in the amount credited to his or her
      Account (including earnings and other adjustments) with respect to a
      contribution for a specific Plan Year on the first to occur of the
      following: 

(1)     the
      date
      that the Participant has five (5) consecutive Periods of Credited Service with
      respect to such contribution; 

(2)     the
      Participant s Separation from Service by reason of death or Disability;
      or 

(3)     the
      Participant s Separation from Service following the attainment of his or her
      Normal Retirement Date. 

In
      addition, any Participant who was 100% vested in any Account prior to October
      1,
      2005       under
      the
      terms of the Plan as then in existence shall remain 100% vested
      therein. 

For
      purposes of subparagraph (1) above, and subject to the provisions of paragraph
      (b) below, a Participant has five consecutive Periods of Credited Service only
      if the Participant is employed by the Company or a Related Employer for the
      full
      five-year period beginning on October 1 of the year following the Plan Year
      with
      respect to which the contribution is made and continuing through September
      30 of
      the fifth year thereafter. For example, if a contribution is credited to a
      Participant with respect to the Plan Year ended September 30, 2005 (regardless
      whether the contribution is actually credited to the Account of the Participant
      in September 2005 or in subsequent months), the Participant will have five
      consecutive Periods of Credited Service only if the Participant remains employed
      by the Company or a Related Employer during the entire period from October
      1,
      2005 through September 30, 2010. 

Except
      as
      expressly provided in this paragraph (a) or in paragraph (b) below, the
      Separation from Service of a Participant from the Company and Related Employers
      before the vesting date will result in a forfeiture of all of the balances
      in a
      Participant s Employer Contribution Accounts that are not then
      vested. 

(b)       Special
      Vesting Rule for Early Retirement     .  

(1)     Notwithstanding
      the provisions of paragraph (a) above, if a Participant s Separation from
      Service occurs after his or her Early Retirement Date but before his or her
      Normal Retirement Date, then solely for vesting purposes, the Participant shall
      be treated as if he or she continued employment with the Company or a Related
      Employer and will vest 100% with respect to a contribution under the rule
      described in paragraph (a)(1) above at the end of five consecutive actual or
      deemed Periods of Credited Service with respect to such contribution. Such
      continued vesting, however, shall be subject to and conditioned upon the
      Participant not engaging in competition with the Company or any Related Employer
      during such five year period. The Participant engaging in any such competition
      will result in an immediate forfeiture of all of the balances in the
      Participant s Employer Contribution Accounts that are not then
      vested. 

(2)     For
      purposes of this paragraph (b), a Participant shall be deemed to have engaged
      in
      competition with the Company or a Related Employer if he or she: 

(i)     discloses
      the list of the Company s or a Related Employer s customers, or any part
      thereof, to any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity for
      any
      reason or purposes whatsoever; 

(ii)     discloses
      to any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity any information
      regarding the Company s or a Related Employer s general business practices or
      procedures, methods of sale, list of products, personnel information and any
      other valuable, special information unique to the Company s or a Related
      Employer s business; 

(iii)     owns,
      manages, operates, controls, is employed by, acts as an agent for, participates
      in or is connected in any manner with the ownership, management, operation
      or
      control of any business that is engaged in one or more businesses that are
      or
      may be competitive to the business of the Company or a Related Employer;
      provided that this restriction shall encompass (A) the State of Florida, (B)
      all
      other states in the United States where the Company or a Related Employer is
      engaged in business (and every city, county and other political subdivision
      of
      such states); and (C) any other countries where the Company or a Related
      Employer is engaged in business (and every city, county, province and other
      political subdivision of such countries); 

(iv)     solicits
      or calls either for himself or herself, or for any other person or firm,
      corporation, association or other entity, any of the customers of the Company
      or
      a Related Employer on whom the Participant called, with whom the Participant
      became acquainted, or of whom the Participant learned during his employment;
      or 

(v)     solicits
      any of the employees or agents of the Company or a Related Employer to terminate
      his or her employment or relationship with the Company or a Related
      Employer. 

(3)     It
      is the
      intention of the Company and the Related Employers that paragraph (b)(2) be
      given the broadest protection allowed by law with regard to the restrictions
      contained herein. Each restriction set forth in paragraph (b)(2) shall be
      construed as a condition separate and apart from each other restriction or
      condition. To the extent that any restriction contained in paragraph (b)(2)
      is
      determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason
      of it being extended for too great a period of time, or as encompassing too
      large of a geographic area, or over too great a range of activity, or any
      combination of these elements, then such restriction shall be interpreted to
      extend only over the maximum period of time, geographic area, and range of
      activities that the court deems reasonable and enforceable. 

(c)       Payment
      Date     .
         Except
      as
      provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) below, payments due with respect to any
      contribution shall be made in cash in a lump sum on the first to occur of the
      following dates: 

(1)     in
      December immediately following the end of the five consecutive Periods of
      Credited Service with respect to such contribution (including under the special
      deemed credited service provisions set forth in section (b) above); 

(2)     as
      soon
      as practicable after the Participant s Separation from Service by reason of
      death or Disability; or 

(3)     in
      December immediately following the end of the Period of Credited Service in
      which the Participant incurred a Separation from Service following attainment
      of
      his or her Normal Retirement Age. 

Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, payments due with respect to an Account that is 100% vested
      in
      accordance with the special grandfather rule contained at the end of the first
      paragraph of Article V(a) shall be paid in cash in a lump sum in December
      immediately following the end of the Period of Service in which the Participant
      incurred a Separation from Service. 

(d)         One
      Time Right To Defer     .
         Notwithstanding
      the provisions of paragraph (c) above: 

(1)     A
      Participant shall have the right to defer the payment of any Employer
      Contribution Account balance otherwise payable under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(3)
      above until a later date. Any such election to defer may be made only once
      with
      respect to any Plan Year balance, may not take effect until at least twelve
      (12)
      months after the date on which such election is made, must be made no later
      than
      September 30 of the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the normal
      vesting date with respect to such Plan Year balance would occur under paragraph
      (a)(1) above (or, if applicable, under paragraph (b) above), must be made no
      later than twelve (12) months prior to the Participant s Separation from Service
      on or after the Participant s Normal Retirement Date, and must establish a
      beginning payment date that is at least five (5) years after the date that
      payment would have otherwise been made under paragraph (c)(1) or
      (c)(3)       above
      absent the deferral election. 

(2)     As
      a
      general rule, the deferral election shall not affect the form of payment, which
      shall be in cash in a lump sum. However, if the date selected for payment is
      a
      date after the Participant s Early Retirement Date or Normal Retirement Date,
      then at the same time as the election to defer is made under the provisions
      of
      paragraph (d)(1) above, the Participant may elect to have the payment made
      in
      substantially equal annual installments over a specified period of time that
      is
      not less than three (3) years and not more than fifteen (15) years, with the
      first installment being paid on the date selected (which date must comply with
      the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) above) and each subsequent installment
      being made on the same date in each succeeding year. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, if a Participant shall elect installment payments and if as of any
      October 31 thereafter, the aggregate amount of all of the balances of the
      Participant s Accounts that are then vested and are to be paid in installments
      is less than $25,000, then each installment election shall be automatically
      voided and the aggregate amount of all of the balances of the Participant s
      Accounts that are then vested and were otherwise to be paid in installments
      shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum in December immediately following
      such voiding of the installment elections. 

(3)     Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, any such election (whether under subparagraph (1) or (2)) shall
      be subject to the condition that it shall be disregarded and not given effect
      if
      the Participant incurs a Separation from Service prior to the Participant
      reaching either his or her Early Retirement Date or his or her Normal Retirement
      Date or if the Participant incurs a Separation from Service by reason of death
      or Disability on or after the Participant s Early Retirement Date or Normal
      Retirement Date.       Moreover,
      in the event that the Participant has begun receiving installment payments
      and
      then incurs a Separation from Service by reason of death or Disability, the
      installment payments shall be terminated and the remaining balance shall be
      paid
      in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the Participant s Separation from
      Service by reason of death or Disability. 

(e)         Required
      Payment Deferral     .
         Notwithstanding
      anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the event that a payment is scheduled
      to be made to a Specified Employee as a result of such Participant s Separation
      from Service (other than by reason of death), then no payment may be made to
      such Participant during the six (6) month period immediately following the
      date
      of the Participant s Separation from Service. In the event any payment is
      delayed under the provisions of this paragraph (e), then all amounts that the
      Participant would otherwise have been entitled to during the six-month period
      shall be accumulated and paid on the first day of the seventh month following
      the date of the Participant s Separation from Service. 

(f)         As
      Soon As Is Practicable     .
         For
      purposes of this Article V, whenever payment is to be made  as soon as
      practicable  following a specified event, such payment shall be made in all
      events no later that the later of (1) the end of the calendar year in which
      the
      event occurs or (2) the 15   th   
      day of
      the third month following the month in which the event occurs. 

ARTICLE
      VI  

        Amendment
      and Termination   

(a)       In
      General    . 

(1)     The
      Plan
      may be amended at any time, and from time to time, by the Committee or by any
      officer of the Company authorized by the Committee. 

(2)     The
      Plan
      may be terminated at any time by the Committee. 

(b)       Effect
      of Amendment or Termination    .
      No
      amendment or termination of the Plan, without the consent of the affected
      Participant, shall materially and adversely affect the rights of any Participant
      with respect to any contribution credited to the Account(s) of a Participant
      prior to such amendment or termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
      Committee reserves the right to amend this Plan, without the consent of any
      Participant, in order to conform the Plan with the provisions of Code Section
      409A. 

ARTICLE
      VII  

        Miscellaneous   

(a)       Payments
      to Incompetents    .
      If the
      Plan Administrator receives satisfactory evidence that a person who is entitled
      to receive any benefit under the Plan, at the time such benefit becomes
      available, is physically unable, mentally incompetent, or not otherwise legally
      competent to receive such benefit and to give a valid release therefor, and
      that
      another person or an institution is then maintaining or has custody of such
      person, and that no guardian or other representatives of the estate of such
      person shall have been duly appointed, the Plan Administrator may authorize
      payment of such benefit otherwise payable to such person or institution; and
      the
      release of such other person or institution shall be valid and complete
      discharge for the payment of such benefit. 

(b)       Plan
      Not a Contract of Employment    .
      The
      Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Company or a
      Related Employer and any Participant, nor to be consideration for the employment
      of any Participant. Nothing in the Plan shall give a Participant the right
      to be
      retained in the employ of the Company or a Related Employer; all Participants
      shall remain subject to discharge or discipline as employees to the same extent
      as if the Plan had not been adopted. 

(c)       No
      Interest in Assets    .
      Nothing
      contained in the Plan shall be deemed to give any Participant any equity or
      other interest in the assets, business or affairs of the Company or a Related
      Employer. No Participant in the Plan shall have any security or other legal
      interest in assets of the Company or a Related Employer used to make
      contributions or pay benefits. 

(d)       Non-Alienation
      of Benefits    .
      No
      benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation,
      alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and
      any
      attempt to do so shall be void. No benefit under the Plan shall in any manner
      be
      liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or
      torts
      of any person. If any person entitled to benefits under the Plan shall become
      bankrupt or shall attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign,
      pledge, encumber or charge any benefit under the Plan, or if any attempt shall
      be made to subject any such benefit to the debts, contracts, liabilities,
      engagements or torts of the person entitled to any such benefit, except as
      specifically provided in the Plan, then such benefits shall cease and terminate
      at the discretion of the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may then
      hold or apply the same or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such person
      or any dependent or beneficiary of such person in such manner and proportions
      as
      it shall deem proper.  

(e)       Governing
      Law    .
      This
      Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive
      laws
      of the State of Florida, without regard to any conflict of law
      principles. 

(f)       Corporate
      Successors.     The
      Plan
      shall automatically terminate upon the sale or other transfer of substantially
      all of the assets of the Company, by the merger of the Company into any other
      corporation or other entity, or by the consolidation of the Company with any
      other corporation or other entity unless the transferee, purchaser or successor
      entity expressly agrees to continue the Plan. No such termination shall
      automatically result in the immediate or other accelerated payment of amounts
      previously deferred under this Plan. 

(g)       Liability
      Limited    . 

(1)     Notwithstanding
      any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Company nor a Related
      Employer, nor any individual acting as an employee or agent of the Company
      or
      Related Employer, shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant or
      other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection
      with the Plan. 

(2)     The
      Plan
      Administrator, and its officers, directors and employees, shall be entitled
      to
      rely conclusively on all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports
      furnished by any actuary, accountant, trustee, insurance company, consultant
      or
      other expert who shall be employed or engaged by the Plan Administrator in
      good
      faith. 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF,    the
      Company has caused this Amendment and Restatement to be executed by its duly
      authorized officer on this _____ day of _________, 2006. 

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.  

By:
      _________________________________ 

                  Its:
      _________________________________ 

COMPANY   

</EX-10.11>

<EX-21>
 4
 ex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21

Return to 10-K  

EXHIBIT
      21   

RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.   

        LIST
      OF SUBSIDIARIES   

The
      following listing includes all of the registrant's subsidiaries as of September
      30, 2006, which are included in the consolidated financial
      statements: 

Entity
                Name  

State/Country
                of Incorporation  

Subsidiary
                or Joint Venture of  

3051862
                Nova Scotia Company 

Canada 

RJ
                Canada, Inc. 

3051863
                Nova Scotia Company 

Canada 

3051862
                Nova Scotia Company 

656948
                British Columbia Ltd. 

Canada 

RJ
                Canada, Inc. 

6632840
                Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

RJF 

ASK-Raymond
                James Securities India Limited 

India 

Heritage
                International Limited 

Awad
                  Assoc., Inc. 

Florida 

Awad
                Asset Management, Inc. 

Awad
                Asset Management, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

Ballast
                Point Venture Partners, LLC 

Florida 

RJF 

Ballast
                Point Venture Partners, LP 

Florida 

RJ
                Ventures, LLC 

EA
                Management I, LLC 

Florida 

EAGLE 

Eagle
                Asset Management, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

EB
                Management I, LLC 

Florida 

EAGLE 

Gateway
                Institutional Fund Ltd. 

Florida 

RJTCF 

Gateway
                Tax Credit Fund II, Ltd. 

Florida 

RJTCF 

Gateway
                Tax Credit Fund III, Ltd. 

Florida 

RJTCF 

Gateway
                Tax Credit Fund, Ltd. 

Florida 

RJTCF 

Heritage
                Asset Management, Inc. ( HAM ) 

Florida 

RJF 

Heritage
                Fund Distributors LLC 

Florida 

RJA 

Heritage
                Fund Distributors, Inc. 

Florida 

HAM 

Heritage
                International Limited 

Mauritius 

RJIH 

Pine
                Creek Healthcare Capital, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

Planning
                Corporation Of America 

Florida 

RJA 

Raymond
                James   Associates, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

Raymond
                James (USA) Ltd. 

Canada 

RJ
                LTD 

Raymond
                James Argentina Sociedad De Bolsa, S.A. 

Argentina 

Raymond
                James South American Holdings, Inc. ( RJSAH ) 

Raymond
                James Bank, FSB 

Florida 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Capital Inc. 

Delaware 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Credit Corporation 

Delaware 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Development Tax Credit Fund, LLC 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Euro Support Limited 

Ireland 

RJA 

Raymond
                James European Holdings, Inc. ( RJEH ) 

Florida 

RJIH 

Raymond
                James Financial International, Ltd. (U.K.) 

U.K. 

RJIH 

Raymond
                James Financial Management Ltd. 

Canada 

RJ
                LTD 

Raymond
                James Financial Planning Ltd. 

Canada 

RJ
                LTD 

Raymond
                James Financial Services, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Financial, Inc. 

Florida 

N/A 

Raymond
                James Geneva S.A. 

Switzerland 

RJA 

Raymond
                James Global Advisors Ltd. 

British
                  Virgin Islands 

RJIH 

Raymond
                James Global Securities, Limited 

British
                  Virgin Islands 

RJIH 

Entity
                Name  

State/Country
                of Incorporation  

Subsidiary
                or Joint Venture of  

Raymond
                James Holdings (Canada), Inc. ( RJ HOLDINGS ) 

Canada 

RJF 

Raymond
                James International Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Investment Services Limited 

U.K. 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Latin Advisors Limited 

British
                  Virgin Islands 

RJSAH 

Raymond
                James Latin America S.A. 

Uruguay 

RJSAH 

Raymond
                James Latin Fund Advisors SA 

British
                  Virgin Islands 

RJSAH 

Raymond
                James Ltd 

Canada 

RJ
                HOLDINGS 

Raymond
                James North Carolina Tax Credit Fund, LLC 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Partners, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Patrimoine, S.A. 

France 

RJIH 

Raymond
                James Securities - Turkey (Raymond James Yat r m Menkul K ymetler
                A.S.) 

Turkey 

RJEH 

Raymond
                James South American Holdings, Inc. 

Florida 

RJIH 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Fund 32 - A, LLC 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Fund 32 - B, LLC 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Fund XX, LP 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Fund XXII, LLC 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Fund XXV - A, LLC 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Fund XXV - B, LLC 

Delaware 

RJTCF 

Raymond
                James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Trust Company 

Florida 

RJF 

Raymond
                James Trust Company West 

Washington 

RJF 

Residual
                Partners 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Canada LP  

Alberta 

3051862
                Nova Scotia Company and 3051863 Nova Scotia Company 

RJ
                Canada, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Capital Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

RJF 

RJ
                Communication, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Delta Capital S.A. 

Argentina 

RJSAH 

RJ
                Delta Fund Management S.A. 

Argentina 

RJSAH 

RJ
                Equities, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Government Securities, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Holdings, Ltd. 

Florida 

Residual
                Partners 

RJ
                Matador, LLC 

Florida 

RJ
                Specialist Corp. 

RJ
                Mortgage Acceptance Corporation 

Delaware 

RJF 

RJ
                Partners, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Properties, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Specialist Corporation 

Florida 

RJF 

RJ
                Structured Finance, Inc. 

Delaware 

RJ
                Capital Services, Inc. 

RJ
                Ventures LLC 

Florida 

RJF 

RJC
                Partners LP 

Florida 

RJC
                Partners, Inc. 

RJC
                Partners, Inc. 

Florida 

RJF 

RJEIF
                I, L.P. 

Delaware 

RJEIF,
                Inc. 

RJEIF
                II, L.P. 

Delaware 

RJEIF,
                Inc. 

RJEIF,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

RJF 

Value
                Partners, Inc. 

Florida 

RJTCF 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 ex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 - Consent of Independent Auditors

Return to 10-K  

EXHIBIT
      23   

CONSENT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

The
      Board
      of Directors 

      Raymond
      James Financial, Inc.:  

We
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No.
      333-59449, 333-74716, 333-103280, 333-103277, 333-98537, and 333-125214) on
      Form
      S-8 and (No. 333-51840) on Form S-3 of Raymond James Financial, Inc. and
      subsidiaries of our reports dated December 14, 2006, with respect to the
      consolidated statements of financial condition of Raymond James Financial,
      Inc.
      and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, and the
      related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, changes
      in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
      period ended September 30, 2006, management s assessment of the effectiveness of
      internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 and the
      effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of September
      30,
      2006, which reports appear in the September 30, 2006 annual report on Form
      10-K
      of Raymond James Financial, Inc.  

KPMG
      LLP 

Tampa,
      Florida  

      December
      14, 2006  

      Certified
      Public Accountants 

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 6
 ex31.htm
 EXHIBIT 31

Exhibit 31

Return to 10-K  

EXHIBIT
      31.1   

CERTIFICATIONS      

I,
      Thomas
      A. James, certify that:  

1.
      I have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Raymond James Financial. Inc.;

2.
      Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.
      Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
      for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.
      The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have:  

a)
      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
      material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
      during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b)
      Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)
      Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
      procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
      of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
      by this report based on such evaluation; and  

d)
      Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
      quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
      that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
      the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.
      The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s Board of Directors
      (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a)
      All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and  

b)
      Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date:
      December 14, 2006 

/s/
      THOMAS
      A. JAMES  

            Thomas
      A.
      James 

            Chairman
      and
      Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT
      31.2   

CERTIFICATIONS      

I,
      Jeffrey P. Julien, certify that:  

1.
      I have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Raymond James Financial. Inc.;

2.
      Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.
      Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
      for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.
      The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have:  

a)
      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
      material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
      during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b)
      Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)
      Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
      procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
      of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
      by this report based on such evaluation; and  

d)
      Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
      quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
      that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
      the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.
      The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s Board of Directors
      (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a)
      All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and  

b)
      Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting.  

Date:
      December 14, 2006 

/s/
      JEFFREY P. JULIEN  

            Jeffrey
      P.
      Julien 

            Senior
      Vice
      President - Finance 

            and
      Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 7
 ex32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

Exhibit 31 - Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopeted
      pursuant to Section 906

Return
      to 10-K  

EXHIBIT
      32   

       CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO   

       18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Raymond James Financial, Inc. (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), we hereby
      certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
      906
      of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to our knowledge:  

1.

The
                Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
                of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

2.

The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company.  

/s/
      Thomas A. James  

      Thomas
      A.
      James 

      Chief
      Executive Officer 

      December
      14, 2006 

/s/
      Jeffrey P. Julien  

      Jeffrey
      P. Julien 

      Chief
      Financial Officer 

      December
      14, 2006 

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 8
 ex991.htm
 EXHIBIT 99(I).1

Exhibit 99(i).1

Return
    to 10-K  

Exhibit
      99(i).1  

CHARTER
      OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE  

BOARD
      OF DIRECTORS  

1.
         Mission
      Statement  

The
      Audit
      Committee serves as the principal agent of the Board of Directors in fulfilling
      the Board s oversight responsibilities with respect to the integrity of the
      Company s financial reporting, the independent auditor s qualifications and
      independence, the Company s systems of internal controls, the functioning of the
      Company s Internal Audit Department and the Company s procedures for
      establishing compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. 

2.
         Responsibilities
      and Duties  

The
      Committee s responsibility is oversight, and it recognizes that the Company s
      management is responsible for preparing the Company s financial statements.
      Additionally, the Committee recognizes that financial management (including
      the
      internal audit staff), as well as the independent accountants, have more
      knowledge of accounting and auditing requirements and more detailed information
      about the Company than do the members of the Committee; consequently, in
      carrying out its oversight responsibilities the Committee is not providing
      any
      expert or special assurance as to the Company s financial statements or any
      professional certification as to the independent accountants  work. 

3.
         Membership  

The
      Audit
      Committee (the Committee) shall be comprised of at least three independent
      directors (in accordance with the independence standards adopted from time
      to
      time by the NYSE and SEC). The members of the Committee shall be appointed
      by
      the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance
      Committee and shall be persons who are financially literate, in the judgment
      of
      the Board of Directors. At least one of the members of the Committee shall
      be a
      person who, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, has accounting or
      financial management expertise. At least one of the members of the Committee
      shall be a person who, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, is qualified
      to serve as an audit committee financial expert under NYSE and SEC
      rules. 

4.
         Meetings
      and Discussions  

Generally,
      the Audit Committee shall hold formal meetings prior to each quarterly meeting
      of the Board of Directors and telephone meetings with the Company s Chief
      Financial Officer and the independent accountants prior to the release of
      quarterly financial results. Additional meetings, either in person or by
      telephone, may be held from time to time as determined by the Chair of the
      Committee. In addition, members of the Audit Committee are free to contact
      members of management including financial managers, compliance managers, the
      Director of Internal Audit, the Senior Vice President for Risk Management,
      the
      Company s internal and outside counsel and the Company s independent accountants
      whenever they consider appropriate; the Committee may request reports or
      presentations at Committee Meetings from any of these individuals. The Committee
      shall meet periodically with senior management responsible for the Company s
      financial reporting. 

5.
         Financial
      Reporting Oversight; Relationship with Company s Independent
      Accountants  

a.
      The
      Company s independent accountants are ultimately accountable to the Board of
      Directors, as representative of the Company s shareholders. The Audit Committee
      exercises the responsibility of the Board of Directors in that oversight
      role. 

b.
      The
      Audit Committee shall be directly responsible for the appointment, retention,
      compensation, and oversight of the work of the independent accountants employed
      by the Company (including resolution of disagreements between management and
      the
      auditors regarding financial reporting) for the purpose of preparing or issuing
      an audit report or related work. In that connection, the independent accountants
      shall report directly to the Audit Committee and the Committee shall determine
      appropriate funding for payment of compensation to the Company s independent
      accountants. 

c.
      In
      connection with the appointment and reappointment of the independent
      accountants, the Committee shall review their independence and obtain written
      disclosures from them regarding all relationships with the Company that could
      affect their independence. In that connection at least annually the Committee
      shall obtain and review a report by the independent accountants describing:
      the
      firm s internal quality-control procedures; any material issues raised by the
      most recent internal quality-control review, or peer review, of the firm, or
      by
      any inquiry or investigation by governmental or professional authorities, within
      the preceding five years, respecting one or more independent audits carried
      out
      by the firm, and any steps taken to deal with any such issues; and (to assess
      their independence) all relationships between the independent accountants and
      the company. 

d.
      The
      Audit Committee shall approve in advance any audit and non-audit services,
      including tax services, to be performed for the Company by its independent
      accountants, except for services that were not recognized at the time of the
      engagement to be non-audit services and for which the compensation does not
      exceed 5% of the total revenues paid to the independent accountants by the
      Company during the fiscal year; provided, however, that such "de minimis"
      services are approved by the Audit Committee or one or more members to whom
      authority has been granted to make such approval prior to completion of the
      audit. In that connection, the Committee shall receive from the independent
      accountants, at least annually, a written statement setting out all
      relationships between them and the Company and the fees paid for those
      services. 

e.
      The
      Committee shall meet with the independent accountants on a regular basis, as
      it
      determines appropriate. At least once a year, the Committee shall meet with
      representatives of the independent accountants without the presence of
      management representatives. 

f.
      The
      Committee, or one of its members, shall meet with the representatives of the
      independent accountants prior to commencement of the annual audit in order
      to
      review the audit scope and approach, and any specific areas of risk that the
      auditors propose to focus on. 

g.
      Following conclusion of the year-end audit, but prior to release of the
      financial statements, the Committee, or one of its members, shall discuss with
      representatives of the independent accountants the financial statements and
      the
      results of the audit, including any disagreements with management regarding
      audit scope or accounting presentation. 

h.
      Prior
      to release of the financial results and related press releases for each quarter
      and the fiscal year the Committee, or one of its members, shall review them
      with
      management and representatives of the independent accountants, and shall review
      with them the "Management s Discussion and Analysis" section of the Company s
      filings with the SEC. The Committee shall also discuss financial information
      and
      any earnings guidance provided to rating agencies and analysts. 

i.
      At
      least annually, the Committee shall review with representatives of the
      independent accountants their judgments concerning the quality of the Company s
      accounting principles as reflected in its financial reporting, whether those
      principles are consistent with industry standards or represent minority
      positions, and the clarity of disclosure of information. The Committee shall
      also review with the independent accountants their views regarding any
      significant estimates made by management which are reflected in the financial
      statements. 

In
      that
      connection, the Audit Committee shall review with the independent
      accountants: 

(1)
      All
      critical accounting policies and practices to be used; 

(2)
      All
      alternative treatments of financial information within generally accepted
      accounting principles that have been discussed with management officials of
      the
      Company, ramifications of the use of such alternative disclosures and
      treatments, and the treatment preferred by the independent accountants;
      and 

(3)
      Other
      material written communications between the independent accountants and the
      management of the Company, such as any management letter or schedule of
      unadjusted differences. 

Based
      on
      the review and discussions described above, the Committee shall recommend to
      the
      Board of Directors whether the financial statements should be included in the
      Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

j.
      At
      least annually, the Committee shall receive from the independent accountants
      a
      report of their recommendations to improve the Company s internal control
      structure and operational efficiency. The Committee shall obtain and review
      management s response to these recommendations. 

k.
      The
      Committee shall approve in advance any proposed hiring by the Company of an
      employee or former employee of the Company s independent
      accountants. 

6.
         Oversight
      of the Internal Audit Department, Internal Controls and Risk
      Management  

a.
      The
      Committee shall have oversight responsibility with respect to the Company s
      Internal Audit Department. In that connection, the Committee shall maintain
      regular contact with the Director of Internal Audit and meet with her/him at
      least once a year without the presence of management
      representatives. 

b.
      The
      Committee shall receive and review reports from the Internal Audit Department
      with respect to the results of audits undertaken and management s response to
      recommendations from the Department. The Committee shall have the authority
      to
      direct the Internal Audit Department to undertake specific projects, including
      review of specific departments of the Company. 

c.
      The
      Committee shall receive regular reports from the Senior Vice President for
      Risk
      Management and review periodically the Company s policies with respect to risk
      assessment and risk management. 

d.
      The
      director of internal audit and Senior Vice President for Risk Management shall
      have access to the members of the Audit Committee on a direct basis as
      necessary, and shall attend meetings of the Committee as requested by the
      Committee. 

7.
         Oversight
      of the Compliance Departments of Major Subsidiaries and Divisions, and Legal
      and
      Regulatory Matters.  

a.
      The
      Committee shall receive reports from the Company s General Counsel regarding
      activities of the compliance directors of the broker-dealers and major
      subsidiaries and divisions of the Company. At least once a year, the compliance
      directors shall submit reports to the Committee on activities undertaken during
      the year, any regulatory problems encountered and regulatory issues that may
      affect the Company in the future. 

b.
      The
      Committee shall receive regular reports from the Company s General Counsel
      regarding material legal and regulatory matters. 

8.
         Other
      Responsibilities  

a.
      The
      Committee shall establish and review procedures for: 

(1)
      The
      receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company regarding
      accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters; and 

(2)
      The
      confidential, anonymous submission by employees of the Company of concerns
      regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. 

b.
      At
      least annually, the Committee shall receive reports from Senior Financial
      Officers of the Company regarding their compliance with the code of ethics
      for
      Senior Financial Officers. The Committee shall report material violations of
      the
      Code of Ethics that are brought to their attention to the Board of Directors
      with a recommendation for appropriate action. 

c.
      At
      least annually, the Committee shall review with the Company s Chief Executive
      Officer and Chief Financial Officer the certifications they sign in SEC reports
      regarding the Company s disclosure controls, the design and operation of the
      Company s internal controls and any material weaknesses they have identified, or
      any fraud involving management or other employees they have identified during
      the course of their review of the Company s controls. 

d.
      The
      Committee shall prepare an annual report to be included in the Company s annual
      proxy statement to shareholders. 

9.
         General  

a.
      In
      exercising its oversight responsibility, the Committee shall have access to
      members of management and may inquire into any issues that it considers to
      be of
      material concern to the Committee or the Board of Directors. 

b.
      The
      Committee shall have authority to conduct or authorize investigations into
      any
      matters within its scope of responsibilities and to retain advisers, including
      counsel and other professionals, to assist in the conduct of any investigation
      and determine their compensation. 

c.
      The
      Committee shall report regularly to the Board of Directors with respect to
      its
      activities. 

d.
      The
      Committee shall review this charter annually and make changes as it considers
      appropriate. 

e.
      The
      Committee shall participate in an annual performance evaluation of its
      activities by the Board of Directors. 

As
      amended by the Board of Directors on 11/28/2006 

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 9
 ex992.htm
 EXHIBIT 99(I).2

Exhibit 99(i).2

Return
    to 10-K  

Exhibit
      99(i).2  

CHARTER
      OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, NOMINATING AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE OF
      THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  

Mission
      Statement  

The
      Corporate Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee (the Committee)
      serves as the principal agent of the Board of Directors in reviewing the
      compensation structure for the Company s senior executives, including the CEO,
      reviewing employee compensation and benefit programs and recommending corporate
      governance policies and practices to the Board of Directors. The Committee
      also
      reviews the qualifications and background experience of proposed candidates
      for
      the Board of Directors of the Company, and is authorized to seek out and
      recommend candidates to the Company s shareholders. 

Membership  

The
      Committee is comprised solely of independent directors as determined in
      accordance with the independence standards adopted by the New York Stock
      Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Members of the Committee
      and the Chair of the Committee are appointed by the Board of
      Directors. 

Duties
      and Responsibilities  

The
      Committee shall have the following duties and responsibilities: 

Compensation
      Responsibilities  

Approve
                the compensation structure for senior management.

Establish
                criteria for the compensation of the CEO and determine his compensation
                based on an annual review of his performance.

Review
                succession plans for the senior management of the Company, including
                the
                CEO.  

Review
                and approve all equity compensation plans, including IRS qualified
                and
                non-qualified plans.  

Review
                and recommend for Board action all grants of stock options or restricted
                stock awards, except new-hire grants made by senior management pursuant
                to
                delegated authority.  

Review
                and recommend for Board action the Company s contributions to employee
                benefit plans.  

Serve
                as the policy making body for issues that arise under any of the
                Company s
                employee benefit, stock option or other employee plans.

Produce
                a report on executive compensation for the Company s proxy statement.

Exercise
                sole authority to retain and terminate any compensation consultant
                to be
                used to assist in the evaluation of director, CEO or executive officer
                compensation, including sole authority to approve the fees and other
                terms
                of such consultant s engagement.  

Nominating
      and Corporate Governance Responsibilities  

Identify
                potential nominees to the Board of Directors, including candidates
                recommended by management, review their qualifications and experience,
                determine their independence as required under New York Stock Exchange
                Rules, and recommend a slate of nominees to the Board of Directors
                for
                consideration and presentation to the shareholders for election.

Review
                succession planning for the CEO and other senior management positions.

Develop
                corporate governance policies and monitor compliance with those policies.

Lead
                the Board of Directors in an annual review of the performance of
                the Board
                and each of the Board Committees.  

Periodically
                review the Company s ethics policy and make recommendations for changes to
                the Board of Directors when necessary.

Make
                recommendations to the Board of Directors with respect to Director
                compensation. Director compensation should be based on reasonable
                compensation to members of the Board for time spent in attending
                meetings
                of the Board and Board Committees, as well as the time required for
                them
                to effectively perform their responsibilities and duties. In reviewing
                Director compensation, the Committee will consider the impact of
                compensation levels and any contributions to charitable organizations
                with
                which any Director may be affiliated on Director
                independence. 

Exercise
                sole authority to retain and terminate any search firm to be used
                to
                identify director candidates, including sole authority to approve
                the fees
                and other terms of such firm s engagement.

General  

Report
                to the Board of Directors with respect to the Committee s activities.

Report
                to the Company s shareholders in the annual proxy statement.

Regularly
                review the Committee s Charter.  

Retain
                outside advisers when it considers such services to be necessary.

Meetings  

The
      Committee shall meet as frequently as its responsibilities require. Generally,
      the Committee shall meet quarterly, prior to each meeting of the Board of
      Directors, and hold an additional meeting to review proposed incentive
      compensation awards for senior management. The Committee may meet in person
      or
      by telephone. 

As
      amended by the Board of Directors on 11/28/2006 

</EX-99.2>

10-K
 10
 submissionpdf.pdf
 PDF

