<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061122_10-K_edgar_data_54193_0001104659-06-077383_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1244706</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>126460</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>249</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>773372</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>31</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-077383.hdr.sgml : 20061122
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061122130803
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-077383
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061122
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061122

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			K TEL INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000054193
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS [3652]
		IRS NUMBER:				410946588
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07115
		FILM NUMBER:		061235479

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2605 FERNBROOK LN N
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55447-4736
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6125596800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2605 FERNBROOK LANE N
		STREET 2:		15525 MEDINA ROAD
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55447

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Rw50c8FNdMy264Nj6T7DCbISNDFlH9yDEKqCfwjSwa52aVDRtbHtMuwLmtYdtqzz
 t+hY2cFRnIiEAbvuWOcGpg==

 0001104659-06-077383.txt : 20061122

10-K
 1
 a06-24410_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

(MARK ONE)  

   x                                  ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fiscal year ended  June 30,
2006   

OR  

o                                     TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the transition period from                
to                  

Commission file number  1-07115   

K-TEL INTERNATIONAL, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Minnesota  

41-0946588   

(State or other
  jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer
  Identification No.)  

incorporation or
  organization)  

2491
  Xenium Lane North, Plymouth, Minnesota   

55441   

(Address of
  principal executive offices)  

(Zip Code)  

Registrant s
  telephone number, including area code:  (763) 559-5566   

Securities
  registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

None   

Securities
  registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

Common
  Stock, par value $0.01   

(Title of class)  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes   o       No  x  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Act.   Yes   o       No  x  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.    Yes  o       No  x  

  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     x  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer   in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large Accelerated Filer  o  

Accelerated
  Filer   o  

Non-Accelerated
  Filer   x  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).   Yes   o       No  x  

  As of November 17, 2006, the aggregate
market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant based on
the last sale price as reported by the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board on such
date was $211,189.  

  As of November 17, 2006, the registrant had
13,653,738 shares of Common Stock outstanding.  

  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

  None.  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

PART I   

Item 1.   

Business   

Item
  1A.   

Risk
  Factors   

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   

Item 2.   

Properties   

Item
  3.   

Legal
  Proceedings   

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

PART II   

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Item
  6.   

Selected
  Financial Data   

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations   

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
  Risk   

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures   

Item
  9B.   

Other
  Information   

PART III   

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

PART IV   

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

Signatures   

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Exhibit
  Index   

SAFE HARBOR
STATEMENT UNDER THE 
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995   

  Certain statements of a
non-historical nature under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and elsewhere in this Form
10-K constitute  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may
be identified by the use of terminology such as  may,   will,   expect,   anticipate, 
 estimate,   should,  or  continue  or the negative thereof or other variations
thereon or comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject
to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from historical results or from those results currently anticipated
or projected. Such factors include, among other things, the following: changes
in consumer purchasing; demand for and market acceptance of new and existing
products; the impact from competition for recorded music; the outcome of legal
proceedings; dependence on suppliers and distributors; success of marketing and
promotion efforts; technological changes and difficulties; availability of
financing; foreign currency variations; general economic, political and
business conditions; and other matters. See  Risk Factors  in Item 1A for
additional information.  We undertake no
obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions to these
forward-looking statements, except as required by law.  

3  

PART I      

   ITEM 1:                BUSINESS     

  K-tel International, Inc.
(the  Company ,  K-tel  or the  registrant ) was incorporated in 1968 and
currently has its corporate offices located in Plymouth, Minnesota. Through its
operating subsidiaries, K-tel licenses its music catalog internationally and
markets entertainment products mainly derived from its catalog through retail
and direct response marketing channels in the United States and Europe. The
Company has a focused method of distribution that targets the strengths of selected
individual retailers and supplies products suited to each retailer s needs.
These products are derived mainly from the Company s master recordings music
catalog with the objective of realizing more competitive profit margins. K-tel
seeks to license its name and trademarks to other companies.  Licenses are granted for a royalty or fee,
with no cost to the Company.  

   Description of
Businesses   

   Music Licensing and Sales   

  K-tel s primary activity is licensing music to other record companies
and to other segments of the entertainment industry. K-tel owns a proprietary
master music catalog of approximately 6,000 titles consisting of original
recordings and re-recordings of music from the 1950 s through today. The
Company licenses the rights to its master recordings to third parties worldwide
for use in albums.  The Company also
licenses its master recordings for films, television programs, commercials and
electronic downloads to various media formats, for either a flat fee or a
royalty based on the number of units sold. Licensing of its proprietary music
rights to third parties has historically been an important revenue source for
K-tel.  

  The Company also markets and distributes pre-recorded compact discs
utilizing the Company s master recordings in its music catalog. Customers
include retailers, wholesalers and rack service distributors. These products
are also sold through subsidiaries and licensees in the United States, United
Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe. The principal entertainment products that
K-tel markets and sells consist primarily of pre-recorded thematic music
packages in a compilation format featuring various artists. These thematic
music selections, which cover nearly all music genres, are targeted at a
variety of age groups. K-tel provides marketing support for its music sales
through cooperative advertising with retailers, print media, radio and
television advertising, and in-store promotions and displays.  

  One customer, I Tunes, accounted for approximately 15.2% of K-tel s
revenue for the year ended June 30, 2006. The loss of, or a substantial
reduction in, business from this customer could have a material adverse effect
on the Company.  

  K-tel delivers music
products through licensing its master music catalog to other music companies,
through electronic downloads of the Company s master music catalog and sales of
CDs through traditional wholesale and retail distribution channels. Digital
music distribution provides both significant risks and opportunities for K-tel.
The risks include K-tel s uncertain ability to compete with other music
companies from a marketing and technological standpoint. The Company believes
there are additional opportunities to license its owned library of master
recordings and is pursuing alternative licensing and distribution opportunities.  

  The Company s ability to
continue its present operations and implement future expansion plans
successfully is contingent mainly upon its ability to maintain its line of
credit arrangements with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc., the Company s largest
shareholder which is controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel (see Note 3 to the consolidated
financial statements), increase its revenues and profit margins, and ultimately
attain and sustain profitable operations. Without increased revenues and
sustained profitability, the cash generated from the Company s current
operations will likely be inadequate to fund operations and service the Company s
indebtedness on an ongoing basis. Management is focusing its efforts on music
licensing and music distribution. However, there can be no assurance that the
Company will achieve profitable operations through these efforts or be able to
continue operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments
that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties.  

   Competition   

  The music business is
highly competitive.  K-tels competitors
include national and regional companies; certain of these competitors (Sony BMG
Corp., Time Warner, Inc. and EMI) dominate the market for licensing and pre-recorded
music. K-tel does not have the financial resources, nor does it have the depth
or breadth of catalog, distribution capabilities or current repertoire of these
companies. K-tel s ability to compete in the future depends upon a number of
factors, including its ability to:  

4     

obtain
licenses with independent music labels and manufacturers; 

                        expand
the customer base for the Company s master music catalog for digital downloads;
and 

                        build
upon and maintain its reputation for 
licensing,  producing, marketing
and distributing high quality music. 

  The major pre-recorded
music companies, either directly or through subsidiaries, now manufacture and
distribute pre-recorded music compilations in direct competition with K-tel s
music compilation products. With this competition, the Company relies on its
own Dominion master music catalog for the production of music compilations.  

   Intellectual
Property   

  The
Company believes that the K-tel  name and mark are well recognized and are
therefore valuable assets of the Company. The Company pursues the registration
of its trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective
trademark, service mark and copyright protection may not be available in every
country in which the Company s products and services are made available.
Federal and state trademark registrations continue indefinitely, so long as the
trademarks are in use and periodic renewals and other required filings are
made.  

  The
Company regards its copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade
secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to its success, and
relies on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and
confidentiality and/or license agreements with its employees, customers,
partners and others to protect its proprietary rights. K-tel believes strongly
in protecting its intellectual property and will seek protection for new
products and marks whenever the Company believes it is advisable.   K-tel cannot assure you that any trademarks held by it will
be valid, enforceable or otherwise of value to the Company in relation to its
competitors or the market in general, or that any trademark for which it has
applied or may apply will be granted.  

  In
addition to trademark protection, the Company generally obtains copyrights in
music works, compilations and sound recordings.  

   Employees   

  On June 30, 2006,
K-tel employed 10 full time and 3 part time people worldwide.  

   Financial and Geographic Information   

  For financial
information about the Company s business segment and geographic area operations
for each of the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 (see Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements).  

   ITEM 1A:             RISK FACTORS     

  The following are
certain risk factors that could affect the Company s business, financial
condition, operation results and cash flows. 
These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating
the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because
these risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed in any forward-looking statement. 
The risks highlighted below are not the only ones the Company  faces. 
If any of these events actually occur, the Company s business, financial
condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected.  The Company cautions you to keep in mind
these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report.  

   Continuing
losses could affect the Company s ability to obtain additional working capital.   

  The Company has incurred losses in recent fiscal years
and expects to continue incurring losses for the foreseeable future.
Continuation of the Company s operations will require additional working
capital and continued access to financing to meet working capital requirements
and develop new business opportunities which may not be available on acceptable
terms or at all.  

  In addition, the report of the Company s independent
registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2006 includes an explanatory
paragraph expressing doubt about the Company s ability to continue as a going
concern.  

5     

The
level of the Company s indebtedness could adversely affect financial condition.   

  The Company has primarily funded its recent operations
through secured loans from K-5 Leisure Products, Inc. ( K-5 ), the Company s
largest shareholder which is controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel.  Although K-5 continues to advance funds
sufficient to meet the Company s needs at this time, there can be no assurance
that K-5 will continue to advance funds sufficient to meet the Company s needs
or that the Company will be able to obtain additional financing upon favorable
terms or at all when required.  

   A
substantial portion of total net sales are from a small group of customers. A
reduction in sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse
effect on net sales and profitability.   

  The Company
believes that sales to a small group of customers will continue to represent a
significant percentage of total net sales. Substantially all of the products
the Company distributes to these customers are supplied on a non-exclusive
basis under arrangements that may be cancelled without cause and upon short
notice, and retail customers generally are not required to make minimum
purchases. If the Company is unable to continue to sell products to this select
group of customers or is unable to maintain sales to these customers at current
levels and cannot find other customers to replace these sales, there would be
an adverse impact on net sales and profitability. There can be no assurance
that the Company will continue to recognize a significant amount of revenue
from sales to any specific customer.  

   The
Company may not have the resources necessary to successfully compete in the
music industry.   

  The music business
is highly competitive and dominated by several major record companies that have
greater financial resources than the Company and have a larger depth and
breadth of catalog, distribution capabilities and current repertoire than the
Company, making it difficult to compete in this market.    The major pre-recorded music
companies, either directly or through subsidiaries, now manufacture or
distribute pre-recorded music compilations in direct competition with the
Company s music compilation products.  

   Technology
developments may adversely affect net sales, margins and results of operations.   

  Home entertainment
products have traditionally been marketed and delivered on a physical delivery
basis. If, in the future, these products are increasingly marketed and
delivered through technology transfers, such as electronic downloading through
the Internet or similar delivery methods, then the Company s retail and
wholesale distribution business could be negatively impacted. As electronic
downloading grows through Internet retailers, competition between suppliers to
electronic retailers in traditional ways will intensify and likely negatively
impact net sales and margins. If the Company is unable to develop the necessary
vendor and customer relationships to facilitate additional electronic
downloading or if the terms of these arrangements differ from those related to
physical product sales the Company s business may be materially harmed.  

   Increased
counterfeiting or piracy may negatively affect the demand for entertainment
products.   

  The recorded music
industry has been adversely affected by counterfeiting of CDs and DVDs and also
by websites and technologies that allow consumers to illegally download and
access music.  Increased proliferation of
these alternative access methods could impair the Company s ability to generate
sales.  

   The
Company may not be able to successfully protect its intellectual property
rights.   

  The Company
regards its copyrights, service marks, trademarks, and similar intellectual
property critical to its success, and relies on trademark and copyright law to
protect the intellectual property the Company licenses.  Infringement on the Company s intellectual
property may lead to litigation to protect the Company s intellectual property
rights which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and
could have a material effect on the Company s business.  

   Product
returns or inventory obsolescence could reduce sales and profitability or
negatively impact liquidity.   

  The Company
maintains a significant investment in product inventory. Like other companies
operating in the music industry, product returns from retail customers are
significant when expressed as a percentage of revenues.  Weakening market conditions could lead to
increased product returns, increasing the Company s inventory and increasing
the need for higher obsolescence reserve. 
Adverse financial conditions could cause a significant decline in the
value and marketability of products, possibly making it difficult to recover
initial product acquisition costs. Under such circumstances, the Company s
business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, could be
adversely affected. The Company maintains a sales return reserve based on
historical product line experience rates. The Company can not assure that
reserves will be adequate to cover potential returns.  

   If the
Company is unable to successfully remediate the material weaknesses in its
internal controls, the Company s ability to report its financial results on a
timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected.   

  The Company has reported material weaknesses and the
actions taken to address them.  Such
remediation may not prove effective. 
Further, should any material weaknesses develop, there are no assurances
that the Company will be able to remediate them in a manner satisfactory to
outside parties.  This could result in
the Company not being able to report its financial results on a timely basis,
harm our operating results, or result in material misstatements in our
financial statements.  In addition, the
Company may be unable to have its internal controls over financial reporting
attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm when required.  

   ITEM 1B:             UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     

  None  

6     

ITEM 2:                  PROPERTIES   

  K-tel s corporate
offices and U.S. operations are located in leased facilities in Plymouth, a
suburb of Minneapolis, Minnesota, consisting of approximately 3,000 square feet
of office space and approximately 4,500 square feet of warehouse. K-tel s
foreign subsidiaries lease a total of approximately 1,350 square feet of office
space.   See Note 6 to the consolidated financial
statements for a summary of the lease agreements.  

   ITEM 3:                LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

   K-tel
International, Inc. vs. Tristar Products, Inc.    

  On March 14, 2000,
K-tel and its subsidiary in Germany commenced an action in U.S. District Court
for the District of Minnesota for breach of express and implied warranties
against Tristar Products, Inc. This action arose out of Tristar s sale to K-tel
of a defective home exercise product called the  BunBlaster  for resale in
Germany, Austria and Switzerland. By written contract, Tristar agreed to
indemnify K-tel for injuries and damages arising out of the resale of those
goods.  

  On April 30, 2001, Tristar asserted a patent and
trademark/ trade-dress counterclaim against K-tel for allegedly passing off a
product called the  K-tel Hook and Hang  while allegedly a distributor of the
original patented Tristar Hook and Hang product. The Company denied the
allegation because it never was a distributor of this or any similar product.  

  On December 30, 2004, a Mutual General Release and
Settlement Agreement was signed by K-tel and Tristar,  whereby both companies agreed to mutual
releases and Tristar agreed to pay K-tel $350,000.  The payment of $350,000 was received on
February 18, 2005.  

   Other Litigation and Disputes   

  K-tel and its subsidiaries
are also involved in other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of their
business. With all litigation matters, management considers the likelihood of
loss based on the facts and circumstances. If management determines that a loss
is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, such amount is
recorded as a liability. Although the outcome of any such legal proceedings
cannot be predicted, in the opinion of management there is currently no legal
proceeding pending or asserted against or involving K-tel for which the outcome
is likely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
position or results of operations of K-tel.  

   Subsidiary s
Liquidation   

  In November 2000,
the Company s consumer products subsidiary in the United Kingdom, K-tel
Marketing Ltd., ceased operations and began voluntary liquidation proceedings.
At the initial meeting of the creditors on November 24, 2000, the creditors
voted for the liquidation to become a creditors  liquidation under English law.
The Company has not been informed by the liquidators or their counsel of any
plan to attempt to hold it or any of its subsidiaries liable for any of the
commitments of K-tel Marketing Ltd. Management believes the Company will have
no ongoing material liability related to K-tel Marketing Ltd. as a result of
the liquidation proceeding. As the only secured creditor, the Company received
distributions of approximately $138,000 on March 1, 2004 and $76,000 on May 14,
2004.  

  In June 2004, the
Company received funds for the sale of assets and the collections of accounts
receivables related to the March 2001 bankruptcy of K-tel International (USA),
Inc., the Company s music distribution subsidiary in the United States. The
Company received approximately $220,000 for assets sold by a third party and
received approximately $113,000 in account receivable collections.  

   ITEM 4:                       SUBMISSION OF
MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

  No matters were
submitted to a vote of K-tel s security holders during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006.  

   Executive
officers of the registrant   

  Each of our Company s
executive officers is appointed to serve until his or her successor is duly
appointed or his or her earlier removal or resignation from office.  

7     

The following
table sets forth certain information with respect to the executive officers of
K-tel at November 22, 2006.  

Name of
  Officer   

Age   

Positions and Offices Held   

Philip Kives  

77  

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer,
  President and Director  

Kimmy Lockwood  

50  

Controller, Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer  

Philip
Kives   ,   age 77, has held various offices and/or managerial
positions with K-tel for more than thirty-five years. Mr. Kives is currently
the Company s Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President and
Director.  

   Kimmy
Lockwood  , age 50, served as the Company s Controller from
1997 until July 2005, and from July 2006 until present.  From July 2005 to
July 2006, Ms. Lockwood was Assistant Controller for Heritage Development,
Inc., a land development company based in Little Canada, Minnesota.  She
was appointed Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer in
September 2006. 

    PART II      

ITEM 5:  

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK, RELATED
  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  
  AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

On November 13,
2006, there were 1,388 record holders of K-tel s common stock and 13,653,738
shares outstanding. The Company s common stock is traded on the
Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol  KTEL .  

  The following
table shows the range of high and low closing prices per share of K-tel s
common stock for the fiscal year periods indicated. Such over-the-counter
market quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up,
mark-down or commission, and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.  

No cash dividends were
declared on K-tel s common stock during fiscal year 2006 or 2005 and K-tel does
not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration or
payment by K-tel of dividends, if any, on its common stock in the future is
subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on K-tel s
earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other relevant factors.
The declaration or payment by K-tel of dividends is also subject to the terms
of its credit facility.  

   Equity
Compensation Plan Information   

  The
following table provides information as of June 30, 2006 with respect to
compensation plans under which the Company s equity securities are authorized
for issuance.  

8     

(1)                Consists
of 46,000 shares issuable pursuant to options granted under the Company s 1997
Stock Option Plan. 

  (2)                Represents
shares of common stock remaining available for future issuance under the Company s
1997 Stock Option Plan, as amended. 

  (3)                Includes
non-qualified stock options to purchase 95,000 shares of  common stock issued outside the Company s
1997 Stock Option Plan to each of Jay William Smalley, Richard R. Marklund and
Wesley C. Hayne in connection with such non-employee directors  appointment to
the Company s Compensation/ Stock Option Committee and a non-qualified stock
option to purchase 15,000 shares of common stock issued outside the Company s
1997 Stock Option Plan to Jay William Smalley in consideration of his past and
continued service on the Company s board of directors. See  Director
Compensation  in Item 11. Includes an aggregate of 1,882,939 shares of common
stock issued pursuant to a stock option exchange program approved on March 18,
2003 by a committee of the Company s board of directors comprised solely of
independent directors. Under the program, three optionees agreed to the
cancellation of previously awarded options under the Company s 1997 Stock
Option Plan and the Company agreed to issue options to purchase an equal number
of shares outside the Company s stock option plan not earlier than six months
and one day after the date of cancellation of the previously awarded options,
such options to be issued at an exercise price per share equal to the then fair
market value of the Company s common stock and to expire ten years after the
new date of grant. On November 18, 2003, the replacements options were issued
at a price per share of $.08. There was no compensation expense recognized as a
result of this exchange. 

   ITEM 6:                SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

  The following
summary of consolidated operations and certain balance sheet information
includes the consolidated results of operations of K-tel and its subsidiaries
as of and for each of the five years in the period ended June 30, 2006. This
summary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. All share and
per share amounts are based on the weighted average shares issued. All amounts
are in thousands of dollars, except per share data.  

(1)                The
income (loss) from discontinued operations reflects the operations of the
Company s consumer products business, net of any income taxes allocated to it.
The Company discontinued its consumer products operations in Germany in June
2000, in the United Kingdom in November 2000, and in the United States in
January 2001. The income in fiscal 2005 also includes the $350,000 lawsuit
settlement received from Tristar that had originated in the discontinued
consumer products business. 

  (2)                The
extraordinary items reflect activity related to subsidiary liquidations and are
shown net of any income taxes allocated to them.  The activity in fiscal 2004 relates to distributions
received from the liquidation of K-tel Marketing, Ltd. in the United Kingdom
and proceeds from the sale of assets and collections on accounts receivable
related K-tel International, (USA), Inc. that had filed for bankruptcy in March
2001. The extraordinary item in fiscal 2002 relates to the net liability that
existed on K-tel Marketing, Ltd. when it filed for voluntary liquidation and
was subsequently removed when the Company received assurances that it would not
be held liable for any of K-tel Marketing, Ltd. s debts. 

9     

I  TEM 7:  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF   OPERATIONS   

General    

  Through its operating
subsidiary, Dominion Entertainment, Inc. ( Dominion ), K-tel licenses its master
music catalog internationally and has entered into licensing agreements with
several companies that offer electronic downloads via their internet sites of
many of Dominion s owned masters.  K-tel
and Dominion have also entered into agreements with BCI to market and sell
entertainment products derived from Dominion s master music catalog under the
K-tel logo in the United States and Canada.  

  Through another
subsidiary, K-tel Entertainment, Inc., K-tel has a focused method of
distribution that targets the strengths of selected individual retailers and
supplies products suited to each retailer s specific needs. These new products
are primarily derived from the Company s master recordings music catalog with
the objective of realizing more competitive profit margins. The Company also
seeks to license its name and marks to other businesses for a royalty or fee.  

   A.                   RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS 

  The following sections
discuss the results of operations by business segment. See Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional segment information. General
corporate expenses of $510,000 in the year ended June 30, 2006, $656,000 in the
year ended June 30, 2005 and $869,000 in the year ended June 30, 2004 have been
allocated to the segments.  

   FISCAL
2006 VERSUS FISCAL 2005   

   Net
sales for the year ended June 30, 2006 were $4,804,000, a decrease of 20.5%
from fiscal 2005 sales of $6,041,000. This sales decrease was attributed to 
reduced domestic music revenue. The net
loss for fiscal 2006 was $1,211,000 or $.09 per share, compared to a net loss
of $457,000, or $.03 per share in fiscal 2005.  

  In fiscal 2005, the
Company recorded and received $350,000 from the settlement of a lawsuit that
involved the discontinued subsidiary, K-tel Consumer Products, Inc.  

  The
following sections discuss the results of continuing operations by business
segment.  

   BUSINESS
SEGMENT RESULTS   

   Licensing   

  Licensing revenues were
$2,748,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006 compared to $1,489,000 for the year
ended June 30, 2005, an increase of 84.6%. The increase was primarily due to
the increased domestic licensing revenue related to the Company s licensing
agreements with BCI and the agreements with companies that offer electronic
downloads of the Dominion master music catalog via their internet sites.  

  Operating income in the
licensing segment was $1,102,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006 and $326,000
for the year ended June 30, 2005, an increase of $776,000.  

10  

Music   

  Net
sales in the music segment were $2,056,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006
compared to $4,552,000 for the year ended June 30, 2005, a decrease of 54.8%.
The decrease was primarily due to decreased domestic music sales related to the
Company s transition from primarily a distribution business to a licensing
business.  

  Cost
of goods sold in the music segment decreased to $1,467,000 or 71.3% of net
sales for the year ended June 30, 2006 compared to $2,422,000 or 53.2% of net
sales for the year ended June 30, 2005, primarily due to the decrease in
domestic music sales.  The segment s
advertising expenses, which consist primarily of co-operative advertising
payments, trade advertising and promotions, increased to $209,000 for the year
ended June 30, 2006 compared to $123,000 for the year ended June 30, 2005 due
primarily to increased promotional programs in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal
2005.  

  Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the segment were $1,907,000 for the
year ended June 30, 2006 compared to $2,423,000 for the year ended June 30,
2005.  The primary reason for the
decrease was the efforts to reduce the Company s overhead costs at the Company s
offices in the United States and the United Kingdom. The music segment incurred
an operating loss of $1,527,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006 compared to an
operating loss of $416,000 for the year ended June 30, 2005.  

   FISCAL
2005 VERSUS FISCAL 2004   

   Net
sales for the year ended June 30, 2005 were $6,041,000, a decrease of 9.6% from
fiscal 2004 sales of $6,679,000. This sales decrease was attributed to 
reduced licensing activity. The net
loss for fiscal 2005 was $457,000, or $.03 per share, compared to a net loss of
$87,000, or $.01 per share, in fiscal 2004.  

  In fiscal 2005, the
Company recorded and received $350,000 from the settlement of a lawsuit that
involved the discontinued subsidiary, K-tel Consumer Products, Inc.  

  In fiscal 2004 the Company received approximately $214,000 from the
liquidation of K-tel Marketing LTD., the Company s consumer products subsidiary
in the United Kingdom, which ceased operations in November 2000, and
approximately $333,000 from the sale of assets and account receivable
collections related to the March 2001 bankruptcy of K-tel International, (USA),
Inc., the Company s music distribution subsidiary in the United States (see
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements).  The $547,000 of distributions were recorded
as extraordinary items, net of income taxes.  

  The
following sections discuss the results of continuing operations by business
segment.  

   BUSINESS
SEGMENT RESULTS   

   Licensing   

  Licensing revenues were
$1,489,000 for the year ended June 30, 2005 compared to $1,916,000 for the year
ended June 30, 2004, a decrease of 22.3%. Both domestic and European revenue
decreased due primarily to the overall decrease in sales of the retail music
business.  Operating income in the
licensing segment was $326,000 for the year ended June 30, 2005 and $959,000
for the year ended June 30, 2004, a decrease of 66.1%.  

   Music   

  Net
sales in the music segment were $4,552,000 for the year ended June 30, 2005
compared to $4,763,000 for the year ended June 30, 2004, a decrease of 4.4%.
The decrease was primarily related to the discontinued sales of unprofitable
budget music DVDs.  

  Cost
of goods sold in the music segment decreased to 53.2% of net sales for the year
ended June 30, 2005 compared to 67.6% of net sales for the year ended June 30,
2004, due primarily to the higher cost as a percentage of sales of the budget
music DVDs which were discontinued in fiscal 2005. Advertising expenses within
the segment, which consist primarily of co-operative advertising payments,
trade advertising and promotions, increased to $123,000 for the year ended June
30, 2005 compared to $110,000 for the year ended June 30, 2004 due primarily to
increased promotional programs in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004.  

  Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the segment remained flat at $2,423,000
for the year ended June   

11     

30,
2005 compared to $2,424,000 for the year ended June 30, 2004. The music segment
incurred an operating loss of $416,000 for the year ended June 30, 2005
compared to an operating loss of $992,000 for the year ended June 30, 2004.  

   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

   Revenue Recognition  
- - The Company derives its revenue mainly from two sources: license revenue from
the licensing of Company-owned masters and the sale of music compilations
(predominately compact discs) produced by the Company. License revenue is
recognized when payment is received from customers or when known amounts are
receivable, as prior to that date collection is not considered probable.
Revenue from music sales is recognized at the time of shipment to the customer.
Most music sales are made with a right of return of unsold goods. Estimated
reserves for returns are established by management based upon historical
experience and product mix and are subject to ongoing review and adjustment by
the Company. These reserves are recorded at the time of sale and are reflected
as a reduction in revenues. The Company s reserve for returns was $126,000 at
June 30, 2006 and $221,000 at June 30, 2005. 

   Rights to Use Music
Product   - Certain of the Company s compilation products are
master recordings under license from record companies and publishers. In most
instances, minimum guarantees or non-refundable advances are required to obtain
the licenses and are realized through future sales of the product. The amounts
paid for minimum guarantees or non-refundable advances are capitalized
and charged to expense as sales are made. The unrealized portion of guarantees
and advances is included in royalty advances in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets. Licenses are subject to audit by licensors. When anticipated
sales appear to be insufficient to fully recover the minimum guarantees or non-refundable
advances, a provision against current operations is made for anticipated
losses. 

   Royalties  
- - The Company has entered into license agreements with various record companies
and publishers under which it pays royalties on units sold. The Company accrues
royalties using contractual rates and certain estimated rates on applicable
units sold. The contractual royalty liability is computed quarterly and the
accrued royalty balance is adjusted accordingly. The royalty agreements are
subject to audit by licensors. 

   Inventory   -
The Company  records lower of cost or
market adjustments for  inventory based
upon estimated market prices to sell identified inventory items that are slow
moving. The Company reviews this estimate quarterly and the estimate is
adjusted accordingly. 

   RECENT
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS   

  In June 2006, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes    an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes  ( FIN 48 ), which clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement
of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The
interpretation requires that the Company recognize in the financial statements
the impact of a tax position.  Recognition is allowed if the tax position
is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical
merits of the position. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and
disclosure. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2006 with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting
principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. The adoption
of this statement is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s
consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

  In
December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based
Payment , which replaced SFAS No. 123 and superseded APB 25. SFAS No.
123R addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which a
company receives employee services in exchange for either equity instruments of
the company or liabilities that are based on the fair value of the company s
equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity
instruments. Under SFAS No. 123R, companies will no longer be able to account
for the share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method in
accordance with APB 25 but will be required to account for such transactions
using a fair-value method and recognize the expense in the consolidated
statement of operations. SFAS No. 123R is effective beginning in the Company s
first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Under SFAS 123R, the Company must determine
the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share-based payments,
the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition method to be
used at date of adoption. The transition methods include prospective and
retroactive adoption options. The Company has begun, but has not completed,
evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R on its results of
operations. In connection with evaluating the impact of SFAS 123R, the Company
is considering the potential implementation of different valuation methods to
determine the fair value of share-based compensation. The Company believes the
adoption of SFAS 123R will not  

12     

have
a material impact on our results of operations, regardless of the valuation
method used.  

   CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS   

  The table below
discloses a summary of the Company s specified contractual obligations at June
30, 2006 (in thousands):  

B.                    LIQUIDITY AND
CAPITAL RESOURCES  

  K-tel has a Line of
Credit Agreement with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc. ( K-5 ), the Company s largest
shareholder and an entity controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel. Under the terms of the
agreement (the  K-5 Facility ), K-5 has agreed to make available up to
$8,000,000 to K-tel on a revolving basis. The loan bears interest at a variable
rate based upon the  base rate  of a nationally recognized lending institution
(8.25% at June 30, 2006),  expires
July 20, 2008, and is subordinated to the Foothill loan (see below). The K-5
Facility contains the same covenants as the Foothill loan agreement.
K-tel has pledged the stock of its foreign subsidiaries as collateral for the
loan, and the loan carries a subordinated position to the Foothill loan on all
other assets of the Company. K-tel had outstanding balances of $8,098,000 and
$7,518,000 as of June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, under the K-5 Facility.
At June 30, 2006, K-tel obtained a waiver from K-5 for its non-compliance under
the covenants, limitations and restrictions of the credit agreement. 

  In addition, K-tel
has a second loan agreement with K-5, under which K-5 assumed rights and
obligations under a loan from the Company s former banker (Foothill Capital
Corporation) pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance Agreement dated February
27, 2001. This Foothill loan, which has been extended through July 20, 2008,
provides for a $10,000,000 credit facility consisting of a $4,000,000 term loan
due upon expiration, and a $6,000,000 revolving facility under which borrowings
are limited to a percent of eligible receivables. Borrowings under the facility
bear interest at a variable rate based on a  base rate    of a nationally
recognized lending institution   plus 1% (9.25% at June 30, 2006) and are
collateralized by the assets of certain Company subsidiaries in the United
States, including accounts receivable, inventories, equipment, music library
and general intangibles. The loan agreement contains certain financial and
other covenants or restrictions, including the maintenance of a minimum
shareholders  equity by K-tel, limitations on capital expenditures,
restrictions on music library acquisitions, limitations on other indebtedness
and restrictions on dividends paid by K-tel. As of June 30, 2006 and June 30,
2005, K-tel had $4,000,000 outstanding under the term loan and there were no
borrowings under the revolving facility. At June 30, 2006, K-tel obtained a
waiver from K-5 for its non-compliance under the covenants, limitations and
restrictions of the credit agreement.  

  K-tel has primarily
funded its recent operations through secured loans from K-5. Assuming K-5
continues to advance funds sufficient to meet the Company s needs, management
currently believes that K-tel has sufficient cash and borrowing capacity to
ensure the Company will continue operations for the foreseeable future.
Although K-5 continues to advance funds sufficient to meet the Company s needs
at this time, there can be no assurance that this will be adequate or continue
in the future or that K-tel will be able to obtain additional financing upon
favorable terms when required.  

  The Company s ability to
continue its present operations is contingent mainly upon its ability to
maintain its line of credit arrangements with K-5, increase its revenues and
profit margins, and ultimately attain and sustain profitable operations.
Without increased revenues and sustained profitability, the cash generated from
the Company s current operations will likely be inadequate to fund operations
and service the Company s indebtedness on an ongoing basis. Management is
focusing its efforts on music licensing and limited music distribution.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve profitable
operations through these efforts. In the event the Company is unable to fund
its operations and implement its current business plan properly, it may be
unable to continue operations. The financial statements do not include any
adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties.  

   ITEM 7A: 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     

  K-tel is exposed
to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. Market risk   

13     

is the potential
loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest
rates and foreign currency exchange rates. K-tel does not enter into
derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

  K-tel s exposure to
market risk for changes in interest rates relates to K-tel s short-term
borrowings. K-tel s short-term credit facilities carry a variable interest rate
that does have an impact on future earnings and cash flows. At June 30, 2006,
K-tel had variable rate debt of $12,098,000. If the interest rate were to
change 100 basis points, or 1%, while K-tel was borrowing at this level under
the credit facilities, annual interest expense would change by approximately
$121,000.  

  Approximately 45.1% of
K-tel s revenues during the year ended June 30, 2006 were derived from
operations in Europe. The results of operations and financial position of K-tel s
operations in Europe were principally measured in their respective currencies
and translated into U.S. dollars. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations
in these European countries is somewhat mitigated by the fact that expenses are
generally incurred in the same currencies in which the revenue is generated.  

  The reported income of
these subsidiaries will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or
strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the respective foreign currency. If
the U.S. dollar foreign currency rate were to change by 1%, the effect on
income would have been approximately $5,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006.
Additionally, approximately 68% of K-tel s assets at June 30, 2006 were based
in its foreign operations and were translated into U.S. dollars at foreign
currency exchange rates in effect as of the end of each accounting period, with
the effect of such translation reflected as a separate component of
consolidated shareholders  equity (deficit). Accordingly, K-tel s consolidated
shareholders  equity (deficit) will fluctuate depending on the weakening or
strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the respective foreign currency.  

   ITEM 8:                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     

  The consolidated
financial statements and related notes and schedules required by this Item are
set forth in Part IV, Item 15, and identified in the Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

   ITEM 9:                                                     CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

  There
were no changes in or disagreements with accountants during the years ended
June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005.  

   ITEM 9A:             CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     

  Under the supervision and
with the participation of the Company s management, including the Company s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act).
Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of the
continued inability of the Company to file its reporting on a timely basis.  The untimely filings have resulted in part
from the follow up necessary to address the material weaknesses in internal
control over financial reporting that had been noted in fiscal year 2004.  

  The Company did not
maintain effective controls over cash disbursements and payroll transactions at
its UK subsidiary. In September 2004, the Company discovered that the former
Chief Financial Officer of its UK subsidiary misappropriated funds from the
subsidiary and one of its customers. Adjustments related to the reversal of
overstated expenses and recovery of amounts misappropriated were included in
the restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements for periods
prior to June 30, 2004 and for the years ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 and
resulted in  the Company reporting a
material weakness in internal control over financial reporting.  

  In response to this
material weakness, the Company terminated the employee, undertook a full-scale
investigation of the matter, retained a forensic auditing firm and dismissed
the accounting firm in the UK that audited the UK subsidiary s financial books
and records. In addition, the Company hired a new Financial Controller and
stringent internal control procedures were created and implemented for the
Company s purchasing, accounts payable, check signing, payroll, petty cash and
financial reporting policies. Management believes that these procedures,
implemented upon the discovery of the misappropriation of funds, have allowed
the Company to remediate this material weakness and to improve its internal
control over financial reporting.  

14     

In fiscal 2005 and 2004,
it was also determined that the segregation of duties in the U.S. office was
limited due to the small number of employees. This segregation of duties became
further limited by vacancies that occurred in the Company s finance department.
In particular, customer orders were recorded by the same person who initiated
shipments, checks were deposited by the accounts receivable clerk, and employee
payroll and changes were entered by the Operations Manager, who also
distributed the payroll checks.  

  In response to this
material weakness in the U.S. office, the former Controller was rehired in the
period covered by this report and duties and responsibilities were revised to
allow for improved segregation of duties and to increase the level of approvals
and reviews. The foregoing remedial steps have allowed the Company to remediate
its material weakness and to improve its internal control over financial
reporting.  

  Other than as set forth above, during the fourth
quarter ended June 30, 2006, there was no change in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f)
under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

   ITEM 9B.              OTHER INFORMATION     

  Not applicable.  

15  

PART III      

   ITEM 10:              DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
OF THE REGISTRANT     

  The following describes
the business, the business experience and background of each current director
and executive officer of K-tel at November 22, 2006. No family relationships
exist between K-tel s directors and executive officers, except that Mr. Smalley
is the brother-in-law of Mr. Kives.  

  Each of our company s
executive officers is appointed to serve until his or her successor is duly
appointed or his or her earlier removal or resignation from office.  

   Wesley C.
Hayne  , age 58, was
elected a director in November 2002. Since 2000, Mr. Hayne has been Chief
Executive Officer of Biorefining, Inc., a company that develops, commercializes
and licenses patented technologies capable of converting residual plant
material into high-end, value-added products. From 1999 to 2000, Mr. Hayne was
President of Cybrix Corporation, Inc., a company that provides solutions and
leases staffing for computer security and disaster planning. From 1997 to 2000,
Mr. Hayne was Chief Executive Officer of International Concept Development,
Inc., a company that develops fast food restaurants in Europe. Mr. Hayne, one
of our independent directors, serves as the  audit committee financial expert 
as defined by Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K. 

   Philip
Kives  , age 77,
founded K-tel in 1968 and has served as its Chairman of the Board since K-tel s
inception. In addition, Mr. Kives has been the Chief Executive Officer and
President for more than five years. 

   Kimmy
Lockwood,   age 50, served
as the Company s Controller from 1997 until July 2005, and from July 2006 until
present.  She was appointed
Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer in September 2006.
From July 2005 to July 2006, Ms. Lockwood was Assistant Controller for
Heritage Development, Inc., a land development company based in Little Canada,
Minnesota. 

   Richard
Marklund  , age 61, was elected a director in November 2002.
Since October 2006 Mr. Marklund
has been Executive Vice President and Director of ASI Communications, Inc., an
integrated marketing company. From 2002 until October 2006, he was Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Phoenix Newcastle Holdings, Inc., a management
consulting company. From 2000 until 2002, Mr. Marklund served as Executive Vice
President of WAM!NET, Inc., a telecommunication company. From 1998 until 2000,
Mr. Marklund served as Chief Executive Officer of Hyperport International,
Inc., a real estate development company. 

   Jay
William Smalley  , age
72, was elected a director in January 1999. From 1970 until 1998, Mr.
Smalley served as Chief Executive Officer of JWS, Inc., a privately owned real
estate development and sales company specializing in hotel, motel, industrial
and residential properties. Since 1998, Mr. Smalley has been a broker and
private contractor for Prudential California Realty. 

   Audit
Committee   

  K-tel has a separate
designated audit committee made up of Wesley C. Hayne, Richard Marklund and Jay
William Smalley.  

   Code of
Ethics   

  K-tel
has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and principal accounting officer.  This code of ethics is available on K-tel s
website at K-tel.com and in print upon written request to:  Code of Ethics, K-tel International, Inc.,
2491 Xenium Lane North, Plymouth, Minnesota 55441.  Any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision
of the code of ethics will be posted to the above referenced website.  

   Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance   

  Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires K-tel s officers,
directors and persons who own more than 10% of a registered class of K-tel s
equity securities to file reports of ownership on Form 3 and changes in
ownership on Form 4 or 5 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such
officers, directors and 10% shareholders also are required by Securities and
Exchange Commission s rules to furnish K-tel with copies of all Section 16(a)
reports they file. Based solely on its review of the copies of such forms received
by it, or written representations from certain reporting persons, the Company
believes that during fiscal year 2006, its officers, directors and 10%
shareholders filed all reports on a timely basis.  

16     

ITEM 11:              EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     

  The following table sets
forth the aggregate cash compensation paid to or accrued for each of K-tel s
executive officers for services rendered to K-tel during the fiscal years ended
June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. K-tel has no written employment agreements with
its executive officers.  

   Summary Compensation Table   

Annual Compensation   

Long-Term 
  Compensation 
  Awards   

Name and Principal Position   

Fiscal Year   

Salary   

Bonus   

Securities 
  Underlying 
  Options   

All Other 
  Compensation   

Philip Kives  

2006  

$  

$  

$  

Chief Executive Officer  

2005  

$  

$  

$  

2004  

$  

$  

$  

During the fiscal
years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company paid approximately
$68,000 in annual management fees to K-5 for services provided to the K-tel
International, Inc. Companies.  These
management fees included payments for services provided by Mr. Kives to the
Company.  

  On March 18, 2003,
a committee of the Company s board of directors comprised solely of independent
directors, approved a  Stock Option Exchange Program.  The Program provided for
a small number of optionees who were previously awarded options to purchase
shares of common stock under the Company s 1997 Stock Option Plan to exchange
them voluntarily for options to purchase an equal number of shares outside the
Company s Stock Option Plan. Mr. Kives exchanged 1,702,939 options with a
weighted average price per share of $5.95 under this Stock Option Exchange
Program. Replacement options were proposed to be issued six months and one day
after the date of cancellation of the existing options and were to be at an
exercise price per share equal to the fair market value of the Company s common
stock as quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on the date of grant and expire ten
years after the date of grant. On November 18, 2003, the replacement options
were issued at a price per share of $.08. There was no compensation expense
recognized as a result of this exchange.  

   Option
Grants in Last Fiscal Year   

  No options were granted
to directors or executive officers in fiscal year 2006.  

   Aggregated Option
Exercises in Last Fiscal Year 
and FY-end Option Values   

Shares 
  Acquired   

Value   

Number of Securities 
  Underlying Options at FY-End   

Value of In-the Money 
  Options at FY-End(1)   

Name   

On Exercise   

Realized   

Exercisable   

Unexercisable   

Exercisable   

Unexercisable   

Philip Kives  

0  

N/A  

1,702,939  

$  

N/A  

(1)                Market
value of underlying securities at fiscal year end minus the exercise price. 

   Director
Compensation   

  Directors
who are employees of the Company receive no compensation for their services as
director. Non-employee directors receive cash compensation of $10,000 per year
(paid quarterly) and are entitled to receive non-qualified stock options for
the             

17     

purchase
of 5,000 shares of the Company s common stock at an exercise price equal to the
fair market value of the common stock on the date of initial election and upon
each re-election by the shareholders at an annual or special meeting. In
connection with their appointment to the Company s Compensation/Stock Option
Committee during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, Jay William Smalley,
Richard R. Marklund and Wesley C. Hayne each also received a non-qualified
stock option to purchase 95,000 shares of common stock issued outside the
Company s 1997 Stock Option Plan. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003,
Mr. Smalley also received a non-qualified stock option to purchase 15,000
shares of common stock outside the Company s 1997 Stock Option Plan in
consideration of his past and continued service on the Company s board of directors.
All stock options issued to non-employee directors during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2003 are exercisable for a period of ten years from the date of grant
and bear an exercise price of $.05 per share. No options were granted to
directors during fiscal year 2006 or 2005.  

ITEM 12:  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
  AND MANAGEMENT AND  
  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

The following table
contains certain information as of November 22, 2006, regarding the beneficial
ownership of our common stock by (i) each person known to K-tel to own
beneficially five percent or more of our common stock, (ii) each director of
K-tel, (iii) each named executive officer, and (iv) the directors and executive
officers as a group. The percentage of beneficial ownership is based on
13,653,738 shares of common stock outstanding as of November 22, 2006. Any
shares which are subject to an option or a warrant exercisable within 60 days
are reflected in the following table and are deemed to be outstanding for the
purpose of computing the percentage of common stock owned by the option or
warrant holder but are not deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of
computing the percentage of common stock owned by any other person. Unless
otherwise indicated, each person in the table has sole voting and investment
power as to the shares shown. Unless otherwise indicated, the address for each
listed shareholder is c/o K-tel International, Inc., 2491 Xenium Lane North
Plymouth, Minnesota 55441.  

*                       Indicates
ownership of less than 1% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. 

  (1)                The
securities  beneficially owned  by a person are determined in accordance with
the definition of  beneficial ownership  set forth in the regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and accordingly, may include securities
owned by or for, among others, the spouse, children or certain other relatives
of such person as well as other securities as to which the person has or shares
voting or investment power or has the right to acquire within 60 days. More
than one person may beneficially own the same shares. 

  (2)                Consists
of 8,048,678 shares held directly by K-5 Leisure Products Inc. (an affiliate of
the Company controlled by Mr. Kives), 325,336 shares held by a wholly-owned
subsidiary of K-5 and 1,702,939 shares purchasable upon the exercise of
options. 

  (3)                Represents
shares purchasable upon the exercise of options. 

  (4)                Includes
2,022,939 shares purchasable upon the exercise of options. 

  Information
regarding common stock that may be issued under our existing equity
compensation plans as of fiscal year end 2006 is set forth under Part II Item 5
of this report.  

18     

ITEM 13:              CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS     

   Loan
Agreements with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc.   

  K-tel has a Line of
Credit Agreement with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc. ( K-5 ), the Company s largest
shareholder and an entity controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel. Under the terms of the
agreement (the  K-5 Facility ), K-5 has agreed to make available up to
$8,000,000 to K-tel on a revolving basis. The loan bears interest at a variable
rate based upon the  base rate  of a nationally recognized lending institution
(8.25% at June 30, 2006),  expires
July 20, 2008, and is subordinated to the Foothill loan (see below). The K-5
Facility contains the same covenants as the Foothill loan agreement.
K-tel has pledged the stock of its foreign subsidiaries as collateral for the
loan, and the loan carries a subordinated position to the Foothill loan on all
other assets of the Company. K-tel had outstanding balances of $8,098,000 and
$7,518,000 as of June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, under the K-5 Facility.
At June 30, 2006, K-tel obtained a waiver from K-5 for its non-compliance under
the covenants, limitations and restrictions of the credit agreement. 

  In addition, K-tel
has a second loan agreement with K-5, under which K-5 assumed rights and
obligations under a loan from the Company s former banker (Foothill Capital
Corporation) pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance Agreement dated February
27, 2001. This Foothill loan, which has been extended through July 20, 2008,
provides for a $10,000,000 credit facility consisting of a $4,000,000 term loan
due upon expiration, and a $6,000,000 revolving facility under which borrowings
are limited to a percent of eligible receivables. Borrowings under the facility
bear interest at a variable rate based on a  base rate    of a nationally
recognized lending institution   plus 1% (9.25% at June 30, 2006) and are
collateralized by the assets of certain Company subsidiaries in the United
States, including accounts receivable, inventories, equipment, music library
and general intangibles. The loan agreement contains certain financial and
other covenants or restrictions, including the maintenance of a minimum
shareholders  equity by K-tel, limitations on capital expenditures,
restrictions on music library acquisitions, limitations on other indebtedness
and restrictions on dividends paid by K-tel. As of June 30, 2006 and June 30,
2005, K-tel had $4,000,000 outstanding under the term loan and there were no
borrowings under the revolving facility. At June 30, 2006, K-tel obtained a
waiver from K-5 for its non-compliance under the covenants, limitations and
restrictions of the credit agreement.  

   Other
Transactions with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc.   

  The Company
purchased approximately $61,000 in the year ended June 30, 2006, $400,000 in
the year ended June 30, 2005 and $502,000 in the year ended June 30, 2004 of
music entertainment and consumer convenience products from K-5, the Company s
largest shareholder and an entity controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of
the board, President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel, which
represented  3.0%, 16.0% and 17.1%  of cost of goods sold, respectively. There
were trade payables to K-5 of $2,000 at June 30, 2006, $398,000 at June 30,
2005, and $390,000 at June 30, 2004, or 0.2%, 23.1% and 27.2% of total trade
payables, respectively.  

  During the fiscal
years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company paid approximately
$68,000 in annual management fees to K-5 for services provided to the K-tel
International, Inc. companies.  These
management fees included payment for services provided by Mr. Kives to the
Company.  

  The Company had no
sales of products to K-5 during fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004. There was no
balance receivable from K-5 at June 30, 2006. 
There was a balance receivable of $129,000 at June 30, 2005 and $113,000
at June 30, 2004.  No interest was
charged on the related outstanding balances during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
2004.  

   General   

  All future
transactions between the Company, its officers, directors and principal
shareholders and its affiliates will be approved by the audit committee of the
Company s board of directors.  

   ITEM 14.                PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

   Fees and Services   

  The following
table shows the aggregate fees billed to the Company by Grant Thornton LLP for
services rendered during fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005:  

19     

(1)                Audit
fees consisted of fees for audit work of the Company s annual financial
statements and review of the quarterly financial statements included in the
Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal years 2006 and 2005 and
related audit committee meeting attendance. 

  (2)                Tax
fees consisted of fees for federal, state and international tax return
preparation and tax planning and tax advice related to various tax matters
including state tax notices and other tax research related matters. 

   Pre-Approval
Policy and Procedures   

  The audit
committee requires that all audit and permissible non-audit services provided
by our independent auditors be pre-approved by the audit committee or a designated
member of the audit committee. These services may include audit services,
audit-related services, tax services and other services. Any pre-approval is
detailed as to the particular service or category of services. The audit
committee reviews all non-audit services to be provided and assesses the impact
of the services on the auditor s independence.  

  The audit
committee pre-approved 100% of the services described in the  Fees and Services 
table pursuant to engagements that occurred in fiscal years 2006 and 2005.  

20     

PART IV      

   ITEM 15:              EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES     

  (a)                                      Financial
Statements and Schedules  

  The consolidated
statements and schedules listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements hereof are filed as part of this report.  

  (b)                                     Exhibits  

  Reference is made
to the Exhibit Index.  

  (c)                                      Excluded
Financial Statements  

  Not applicable.  

21     

SIGNATURES     

  Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf on November 22, 2006 by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.  

K-TEL INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By  

/s/ Philip
  Kives  

(Philip Kives -
  Chairman of the Board,  

Chief Executive
  Officer and President)  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on the
dates indicated.  

Signatures 

Title   

Date   

/s/ Philip Kives  

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,  

November 22, 2006  

Philip Kives  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

President and Director  

/s/Kimmy
  Lockwood  

Controller  

November 22, 2006  

Kimmy Lockwood  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

/s/ Jay William
  Smalley  

Director  

November 22, 2006  

Jay William
  Smalley  

/s/ Wesley C.
  Hayne  

Director  

November 22, 2006  

Wesley C. Hayne  

/s/ Richard
  Marklund  

Director  

November 22, 2006  

Richard Marklund  

22  

K-TEL INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   INDEX TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2006 and
  2005   

Consolidated
  Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended June 30, 2006   

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Deficit for
  each of the three years ended June 30, 2006   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the
  three years ended June 30, 2006   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Supplemental Schedule to Consolidated Financial
  Statements:  

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for
  each of the three years ended June 30, 2006  

All other
schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations
of the Securities and Exchange Commission have been omitted as not required,
not applicable or the information required has been included elsewhere in the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.  

23     

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

   To the Board of
Directors and Shareholders of K-tel International, Inc .  

  We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of K-tel International, Inc. (a
Minnesota corporation) and Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2006 and 2005 and the
related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  deficit, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2006. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.  

  We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration
of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting.  Accordingly,
we express no such opinion.  An audit
also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion,
the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the consolidated financial position of K-tel International, Inc. and
Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2006 and 2005 and the consolidated results of their
operations and their consolidated cash flows for the each of the three years in
the period ended June 30, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.  

  As discussed in
Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB
Interpretation 46 (Revised December 2003),  Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities , during the quarter ended March 31, 2004.  

  The accompanying
financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue
as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the
Company has incurred significant recurring losses from operations and has a net
working capital deficit that raises substantial doubt about the Company s
ability to continue as a going concern. 
Management s plans in regard to these matters are also described in Note
1.  The financial statements do not
include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.  

  Our audits were
conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic consolidated
financial statement taken as a whole. 
The accompanying Schedule II of K-tel International, Inc. and
Subsidiaries is presented for the purposes of additional analysis and is not a
required part of the basic consolidated financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic consolidated financial
statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.  

  /S/ GRANT THORNTON
LLP  

  Minneapolis,
Minnesota,  

  October 30, 2006  

24     

K-TEL
INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS     

   JUNE 30,   

   (in
thousands - except share and per share data)   

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

25     

K-TEL INTERNATIONAL,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

   YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,   

   (in
thousands - except per share data)   

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

26     

K-TEL
INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  DEFICIT     

   YEARS
ENDED JUNE 30, 2006, 2005 AND 2004   

   (in
thousands)   

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

27     

K-TEL
INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

   YEARS
ENDED JUNE 30,   

   (in
thousands)   

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

28  

K-TEL
INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
 JUNE 30, 2006, 2005 AND 2004  

   1.                                           BUSINESS
AND LIQUIDITY  

  K-tel International, Inc. (the  Company  or  K-tel )
was incorporated in 1968 and currently has its corporate offices located in
Plymouth, Minnesota. Through its operating subsidiaries, K-tel licenses its
music catalog internationally and markets entertainment products mainly derived
from its catalog through retail and direct response marketing channels in the
United States and Europe. The Company has a focused method of distribution that
targets the strengths of selected individual retailers and supplies products
suited to each retailer s needs. These products are derived mainly from the
Company s master recordings music catalog with the objective of realizing more
competitive profit margins. K-tel seeks to license its trademarks to other
companies. Licenses are granted for a royalty or fee, with no cost to the
Company.  

   Subsidiary Liquidations   

  In November 2000, the
Company s consumer products subsidiary in the United Kingdom, K-tel Marketing
Ltd., ceased operations and began voluntary liquidation proceedings. At the
initial meeting of the creditors on November 24, 2000, the creditors voted for
the liquidation to become a creditors  liquidation under English law. The
Company has not been informed by the liquidators or their counsel of any plan
to attempt to hold it or any of its subsidiaries liable for any of the
commitments of K-tel Marketing Ltd. Management believes the Company will have
no ongoing material liability related to K-tel Marketing Ltd. as a result of
the liquidation proceeding. In fiscal 2002, the assets and liabilities of the
subsidiary were removed from the books of the Company and the remaining net
liability was shown as a gain on liquidation. As the only secured creditor, the
Company subsequently received distributions of approximately $138,000 on March
1, 2004 and $76,000 on May 14, 2004 and reflected these as gain on subsidiary
liquidations, net of taxes. K-tel Marketing Ltd. had no operations during the
fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

  In June 2004, the Company
received funds for the sale of assets and the collections of accounts
receivables related to the March 2001 bankruptcy of K-tel International, (USA),
Inc., the Company s music distribution subsidiary in the United States. The
Company received approximately $220,000 for assets sold by a third party and
received approximately $113,000 in account receivable collections. These
receipts were reflected as gain on subsidiary liquidations, net of taxes.  

   Discontinued
Operations   

  The Company s
consumer products business, which was concentrated in Europe, consisted
primarily of housewares, consumer convenience items and exercise equipment. The
Company discontinued its consumer products operations in Germany, the United
Kingdom and the United States in June 2000, November 2000 and January 2001,
respectively. Accordingly, these activities have been presented in the
accompanying financial statements as discontinued operations. The accompanying
condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared to reflect the
consumer products division as a discontinued operation. The net liabilities of
discontinued operations at June 30, 2006 and 2005 and losses from discontinued
operations relate primarily to legal matters and completion of statutory
reporting requirements for the former operations in Germany (See Note 6).  

  In fiscal 2005 the Company recorded and received
$350,000 from the settlement of a lawsuit that involved the discontinued
subsidiary, K-tel Consumer Products, Inc. Legal expenses relating to the
lawsuit offset this amount.  

   Going Concern   

  During the years
ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company incurred net losses from
continuing operations of $1,200,000, $608,000 and $382,000, respectively, and
used $189,000, provided $882,000 and used $618,000 of cash in operating
activities. Additionally, the Company had a working capital deficit of
$12,373,000 at June 30, 2006.  

  The
Company s ability to continue its present operations and implement future
expansion plans successfully is contingent mainly upon its ability to maintain
its line of credit arrangements with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc. (See Note 3),
increase its revenues and profit margins, and ultimately attain and sustain
profitable operations. Without increased revenues and sustained profitability,
the cash generated from the Company s current operations will likely be
inadequate to fund operations and service its indebtedness on an ongoing basis.
Management is focusing its efforts on music licensing and limited music
distribution. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve
profitable operations  

29     

through
these efforts. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that
might result from the outcome of these uncertainties.  

   2.                                           SUMMARY
OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

   Principles of
Consolidation   - The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of K-tel International, Inc. and its domestic
and foreign subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned. All significant
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. During the quarter
ended March 31, 2004, the company began to consolidate the financial statements
of Lancaster Trading Ltd., a variable interest entity of which the company
determined it was the primary beneficiary (see Note 12). 

   Revenue
Recognition   - The Company derives its revenue mainly from two
sources: license revenue from the licensing                of
Company-owned masters and the sale of music compilations (predominately compact
discs) produced by the Company. License revenue is recognized when payment is
received from customers or when known amounts are receivable, as prior to that
date collection is not considered probable and revenue from music sales is
recognized at the time of shipment to the customer. Most music sales are made
with a right of return of unsold goods. Estimated reserves for returns are
established by management based upon historical experience and product mix and
are subject to ongoing review and adjustment by the Company. These reserves are
recorded at the time of sale and are reflected as a reduction in revenues. The
Company s reserve for returns was $126,000 at June 30, 2006 and $221,000 at
June 30, 2005. 

   Cost of Goods Sold  
- - The Company expenses all product manufacturing, distribution and royalty
costs associated with music sales as cost of goods sold. The Company also
expenses royalties, commissions and amortization of its owned master recordings
associated with its license revenue as costs of goods sold. 

   Shipping and
Handling Costs   - The Company expenses within cost of goods
sold all shipping and handling costs incurred in the shipment of goods. 

   Cash and Cash
Equivalents   - Cash and cash equivalents consist principally
of cash and short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of
less than ninety days. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, $1,612,000 and $1,172,000,
respectively, was held at various financial institutions in Europe. 

   Accounts Receivable  
- - Accounts receivable balances are presented net of allowances. The Company
determines its allowances by considering a number of factors, including the
length of time trade receivables are past due, the Company s previous history,
and the customer s current ability to pay obligations to the Company. The
Company writes off accounts receivables when they become uncollectible. 

   Inventories  
- - Inventories, which consists of finished goods that include all direct product
costs, are valued at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-out
basis, or net realizable value. 

   Owned Catalog
Masters   - The Company capitalizes the costs to purchase owned
master recordings at the time of acquisition. These costs are amortized over
the estimated useful life of these master recordings, which is generally seven
years and represents management s best estimate of the average period of value.
Amortization expense for the years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
$163,000, $173,000, and $190,000, respectively. 

  Estimated
amortization expense for the owned catalog masters is as follows for the years
ended June 30:  

Rights to Use
Music Product   - Certain of the Company s compilation products
are master recordings under license from record companies and publishers. In
most instances, minimum guarantees or non-refundable advances are required to
obtain the licenses and are realized through future sales of the product. The
amounts paid for minimum guarantees or non-refundable advances are
capitalized and charged to expense as sales are made. The unrealized portion of
guarantees  

30     

and advances is
included in royalty advances in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Licenses
are subject to audit by licensors. When anticipated sales appear to be
insufficient to fully recover the minimum guarantees or non-refundable
advances, a provision against current operations is made for anticipated
losses.  

   Property and
Equipment   - Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation and amortization is provided using straight line or declining
balance methods over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from
three to nine years. 

   Long Lived-Assets  
- - The Company evaluates its long-lived assets quarterly, or earlier if a
triggering event occurs, to determine potential impairment by comparing the
carrying value of those assets to the related undiscounted future cash flows of
the assets. If an asset is determined to be impaired, it is written down to its
estimated fair value. 

   Royalties  
- - The Company has entered into license agreements with various record companies
and publishers under which it pays royalties on units sold. The Company accrues
royalties using contractual rates and certain estimated rates on applicable
units sold. The contractual royalty liability is computed quarterly and the
accrued royalty balance is adjusted accordingly. The royalty agreements are
subject to audit by licensors. 

   Advertising  
- - The Company expenses the costs of advertising when the advertising takes
place, except for direct response advertising, which is capitalized and
amortized over its expected period of future benefits (usually the period
remaining under a related contract, which is generally less than one year).
Direct response advertising consists primarily of television advertising
whereby customers respond specifically to the advertising and where the Company
can identify the advertising that elicited the response. Advertising expenses
were $209,000, $123,000, and $110,000, for the years ended June 30, 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. 

   Foreign Currency  
- - The operations of foreign subsidiaries are measured in local currencies.
Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at period-end exchange
rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates
prevailing during the period. Adjustments resulting from translating the
financial statements of foreign entities into U.S. dollars are recorded as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. 

   Stock-based
Compensation   - The Company accounts for stock-based awards to
employees using the intrinsic value method, whereby the options are granted at
market price, and therefore no compensation costs are recognized. If
compensation expense for the Company s various stock option plans had been
determined based on the projected fair values at the grant dates for awards
under those plans, the Company s pro-forma net loss, basic and diluted loss per
common share would have been as follows: 

Income Taxes  
- - Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences between the
financial reporting basis and tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities
at currently enacted tax rates. A valuation allowance equal to the aggregate
amount of deferred tax assets is established when realization is not likely. 

   Net Income (Loss) Per Share   - Basic
and diluted net income (loss) per share have been computed by dividing net
income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the
period. For all periods presented, common stock equivalents were excluded from
the per share calculation as the net effect would be antidilutive. For the
fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, weighted average options to
purchase 2,228,939, 2,564,839, and 2,574,839, shares of common stock, with
weighted average exercise prices of $.19, $.36, and $.39, respectively, were
excluded from the computation of common share equivalents for the respective
periods as they were antidilutive. 

   Use of Estimates  
- - Preparing consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally  

31     

accepted in the
United States of America ( US GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Principal estimates include allowances for bad debt,
inventory valuation, return reserves, royalty obligations, purchase commitments
and product replacement costs. Actual results could differ from those estimates
used by management.  

   3.                                           NOTES
PAYABLE TO AFFILIATE AND OTHER  

  K-tel has a Line
of Credit Agreement with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc. ( K-5 ), the Company s
largest shareholder and an entity controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of
the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel. Under the terms of
the agreement (the  K-5 Facility ), K-5 has agreed to make available up to
$8,000,000 to K-tel on a revolving basis. The loan bears interest at a variable
rate based upon the  base rate  of a nationally recognized lending institution
(8.25% at June 30, 2006),  expires
July 20, 2008, and is subordinated to the Foothill loan (see below). The K-5
Facility contains the same covenants as the Foothill loan agreement.
K-tel has pledged the stock of its foreign subsidiaries as collateral for the
loan, and the loan carries a subordinated position to the Foothill loan on all
other assets of the Company. K-tel had outstanding balances of $8,098,000 and
$7,518,000 as of June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, under the K-5 Facility.
At June 30, 2006, K-tel obtained a waiver from K-5 for its non-compliance under
the covenants, limitations and restrictions of the credit agreement. 

  In addition, K-tel
has a second loan agreement with K-5, under which K-5 assumed rights and
obligations under a loan from the Company s former banker (Foothill Capital
Corporation) pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance Agreement dated February
27, 2001. This Foothill loan, which has been extended through July 20, 2008,
provides for a $10,000,000 credit facility consisting of a $4,000,000 term loan
due upon expiration, and a $6,000,000 revolving facility under which borrowings
are limited to a percent of eligible receivables. Borrowings under the facility
bear interest at a variable rate based on a  base rate    of a nationally
recognized lending institution   plus 1% (9.25% at June 30, 2006) and are
collateralized by the assets of certain Company subsidiaries in the United
States, including accounts receivable, inventories, equipment, music library
and general intangibles. The loan agreement contains certain financial and
other covenants or restrictions, including the maintenance of a minimum
shareholders  equity by K-tel, limitations on capital expenditures,
restrictions on music library acquisitions, limitations on other indebtedness
and restrictions on dividends paid by K-tel. As of June 30, 2006 and June 30,
2005, K-tel had $4,000,000 outstanding under the term loan and there were no
borrowings under the revolving facility. At June 30, 2006, K-tel obtained a
waiver from K-5 for its non-compliance under the covenants, limitations and
restrictions of the credit agreement.  

   4.                                           INCOME
TAXES  

  The Company
operates in several countries and is subject to various tax regulations and tax
rates. The provisions for income taxes are computed based on income reported
for financial statement purposes in accordance with the tax rules and
regulations of the taxing authorities where the income is earned.  

  The provision for
income taxes consists of the following for the years ended June 30 (in
thousands):  

32     

A reconciliation
of the U.S. Federal statutory rate to the effective tax rate for the years
ended June 30 was as follows:  

Deferred income
taxes are provided for the temporary differences between the financial
reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities.
Temporary differences, which are all deferred tax assets, were as follows (in
thousands):  

A valuation
allowance equal to the aggregate amount of deferred tax assets has been
established until such time as realizability of these assets is more likely
than not.  

  For U.S. tax
reporting purposes, the Company has net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards of
approximately $43,200,000. However, of the amount available through 2013 and
2020, $20,100,000 of the NOL relates to deductions associated with the exercise
of stock options. The tax benefit of approximately $7,236,000 associated with
this stock option deduction will be recorded as additional paid-in
capital if and when realized. The NOL carryforwards may be reduced in future
years, without financial statement benefit, to the extent of intercompany
dividends received from foreign subsidiaries. Also, the NOL carryforwards are
subject to review and possible adjustment by taxing authorities. In addition,
the Company has approximately $439,000 in U.S. federal alternative minimum tax
credits and $325,000 in foreign tax credits, which may be utilized in the
future to offset any regular corporate income tax liability.  

   5.                                           CAPITAL
TRANSACTIONS  

   Stock Option Plan   

  The Company has a
Stock Option Plan for officers, directors, and employees of the Company. Under
the terms of this plan the Board of Directors has the sole authority to
determine the employees to whom options and awards are granted, the type, size
and terms of the awards, the timing of the grants, the duration of the exercise
period and any other matters arising under the plan. The common stock
incentives may take the form of incentive stock options and nonqualified stock
options. In February 1997, the Company s Board of Directors approved a stock
option plan covering a maximum of 600,000 shares of common stock, which was
subsequently amended to 5,000,000 through shareholder amendments in February
1999, January 2000 and November 2000. There were options for 2,037,605 net
shares granted under this plan as of June 30, 2006, of which 1,011,111 have
been exercised. Any options cancelled become available for future grants. No
options granted have expired.  

   Stock Option Exchange   

  On March 18, 2003, a committee of the Company s board
of directors comprised solely of independent directors, approved a  Stock
Option Exchange Program.  The Program provided for a small number of optionees
who were previously awarded options to purchase shares of common stock under
the Company s 1997 Stock Option Plan to   

33     

exchange them voluntarily for options to purchase an
equal number of shares outside the Company s Stock Option Plan. Mr. Kives
exchanged 1,702,939 options with a weighted average price per share of $5.95
under this Stock Option Exchange Program. Replacement options were proposed to
be issued six months and one day after the date of cancellation of the existing
options and were to be at an exercise price per share equal to the fair market
value of the Company s common stock as quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on the
date of grant and expire ten years after the date of grant. On November 18,
2003, the replacement options were issued at a price per share of $.08. There
was no compensation expense recognized as a result of this exchange.  

   Restricted and Non-Qualified
Stock Options   

  In addition to
stock options granted under the terms of the Stock Option Plan, the Board of
Directors has the sole authority to grant employees, officers and directors
incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options outside the Stock
Option Plan. The Board of Directors determines the type, size and terms of the
grants, timing of the grants, the duration of the exercise period and any other
matters pertaining to options or awards granted outside of the Stock Option
Plan. There were options for 2,202,939 net shares granted outside the Stock
Option Plan as of June 30, 2006. No options were granted outside the Stock
Option Plan during fiscal 2006.  

  The share
information for all plans is summarized below:  

(1)                               Adjustment
reflects options disclosed previously as incentive that should have been recorded
as non-qualified. 

  The following
tables summarize information concerning currently outstanding and exercisable
stock options at June 30, 2006:  

The weighted
average fair value of options granted in fiscal 2004 was $.08. No options were
granted in fiscal 2006 or 2005. Because the fair value provisions have not been
applied to options granted prior to June 30, 1995, the resulting pro forma
compensation cost (See Note 1) may not be representative of that to be expected
in future years.  

34  

The fair value of
each option is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model. The following assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of options:  

Risk-free interest rate 

4.00%  

Expected life  

10 years  

Expected volatility  

220%  

Expected dividend yield  

None  

6.                                           COMMITMENTS
AND CONTINGENCIES  

   K-tel
International, Inc. vs. Tristar Products, Inc.    

  On March 14, 2000,
K-tel and its subsidiary in Germany commenced an action for breach of express
and implied warranties against Tristar Products, Inc. This action arose out of
Tristar s sale to K-tel of a defective home exercise product called the  BunBlaster 
for resale in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. By written contract,
Tristar  agreed to indemnify K-tel for
injuries and damages arising out of the resale of those goods.  

  On April 30, 2001, Tristar asserted a patent and
trademark/ trade-dress counterclaim against K-tel for allegedly passing off a
product called the  K-tel Hook and Hang  while allegedly a distributor of the
original patented Tristar Hook and Hang product. The Company denies the
allegation because it never was a distributor of this or any similar product.  

  On December 30, 2004, a Mutual General Release and
Settlement Agreement was signed by K-tel and Tristar,  whereby both companies agreed to mutual
releases and Tristar agreed to pay K-tel $350,000. The Company recorded
the  $350,000 in discontinued operations
and  payment was received February 18,
2005.  

   Other Litigation and Disputes   

  K-tel and its
subsidiaries are involved in other legal actions in the ordinary course of
their business. With all litigation matters, management considers the
likelihood of loss based on the facts and circumstances. If management
determines that a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated, such amount is recorded as a liability. Although the outcome of any
such legal actions cannot be predicted, in the opinion of management there is
currently no legal proceeding pending or asserted against or involving K-tel
for which the outcome is likely to have a material adverse effect upon the
consolidated financial position or results of operations of K-tel.  

   Leases   

  The Company has
entered into several office and warehouse leases which expire through calendar
2009. Commitments under these leases are $38,000, $50,000, $50,000 and $13,000
in fiscal 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively.  Rental expense was $243,000 in 2006, $222,000
in 2005, and $228,000 in 2004.  

   7.                                           SIGNIFICANT
CUSTOMERS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

  One customer
accounted for approximately 15.2% of K-tel s revenue for the year ended June
30, 2006 and had no accounts receivable balance at June 30, 2006. The loss of,
or a substantial reduction in, business from this customer  could have a material adverse effect on the
Company.  

  In fiscal year
2005, three customers accounted for approximately 18.4%, 15.3% and 13.2% of
K-tel s revenue and had accounts receivable balances of $503,000, $403,000 and
$22,000 respectively.  

  See Note 3 for information
regarding debt transactions with related parties.  

  The Company
purchased approximately $61,000 in the year ended June 30, 2006, $400,000 in
the year ended June 30, 2005, and $502,000 in the year ended June 30, 2004 of
music entertainment and consumer convenience products from  K-5, the Company s largest shareholder
controlled by Philip Kives, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer of K-tel. There were trade payables to K-5 of $2,000 at June
30, 2006, $398,000 at June 30, 2005, and $390,000 at June 30, 2004.  

35     

The Company had no
sales of products to K-5 during the years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.
There was no balance receivable from K-5 at June 30, 2006.  There was a balance receivable at June 30,
2005 of $129,000 and June 30, 2004 of $113,000. No interest was charged on the
related outstanding balances during fiscal years 2006, 2005 or  2004.  

  All future transactions
between the Company, its officers, directors and principal shareholders and its
affiliates will be approved by the audit committee of the Company s board of
directors.  

   8.                                              RETIREMENT  PLANS  

   Pension Plan   

  The Company has a
pension plan for its U.K. employees. Contributions to the Plan by the Company
on behalf of the eligible employees were terminated effective February 15, 2001
and all benefit accruals under the Plan ceased. Summary plan information is as
follows:  

The
employer is not expected to contribute to the plan in fiscal 2007.  

  The
Company s pension plan asset target allocation for 2006 and actual asset
allocations are as follows at June 30:  

The Company s investment
strategy with respect to pension plan assets is to continue to hold the plan
asset in a deposit administration fund, which is similar to a bank account.
Interest is added to the fund at a rate declared by Swiss Life.  

36     

WEIGHTED-AVERAGE
ASSUMPTIONS USED TO DETERMINE NET PERIODIC COST FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30:  

WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ASSUMPTION USED TO DETERMINE
BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS AS OF JUNE 30:  

Money Purchase
Plan   

  The Company s U.K.
subsidiaries contribute amounts for their employees to a money purchase defined
contribution plan. The Company contributed $28,000, $53,000, and $77,000 for
the years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

   9.                                           BUSINESS
SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA  

  K-tel s
businesses are organized, managed and internally reported as two segments:
music licensing and retail music sales.  

  These segments are
based on differences in products, customer type and sales and distribution
methods.  

  The Company
licenses the rights to its master music catalog, consisting of original
recordings and re-recordings of music from the 1950 s through today, to
third parties world-wide for use in albums, films, television programs,
commercials and electronic downloads to various media formats, for either a
flat fee or a royalty based on the number of units sold.  

  The music segment
of the Company markets and distributes entertainment products internationally
and through its operating subsidiaries. The retail music segment consists
primarily of the sales of pre-recorded music from the Company s master
music catalog. The Company sells compact discs and DVD s directly to retailers,
wholesalers and rack service distributors which stock and manage inventory
within music departments for retail stores.  

  The Company s
consumer product and e-commerce operations have been discontinued, are
presented in the accompanying financial statements as discontinued operations
and are therefore not included in the segment information.  

  Operating   profits  or losses of these segments
include an allocation of general corporate expenses. Depreciation and
amortization and capital additions are not significant and have therefore been
excluded from the presentation. 

37     

Certain financial
information on the Company s continuing operating segments is as follows:  

  BUSINESS SEGMENT
INFORMATION  (in thousands)   

GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION  (in thousands)   

10.                                                    RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

  In June 2006, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes    an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes  ( FIN 48 ), which clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement
of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The
interpretation requires that the Company recognize in the financial statements
the impact of a tax position.  Recognition is allowed if the tax position
is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical
merits of the position. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and
disclosure. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2006 with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting
principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. The adoption
of this statement is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s
consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

  In
December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based
Payment , which replaced SFAS No. 123 and superseded APB 25. SFAS No.
123R addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which a
company receives employee services in exchange for either equity instruments of
the company or liabilities that are based on the fair value of the company s
equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity
instruments. Under SFAS No. 123R, companies will no longer be able to account
for the share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method in
accordance with APB 25 but will be required to account for such transactions
using a fair-value method and recognize the expense in the consolidated
statement of operations. SFAS No. 123R is effective beginning in the Company s
first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Under SFAS 123R, the Company must determine
the appropriate fair  

38     

value
model to be used for valuing share-based payments, the amortization method for
compensation cost and the transition method to be used at date of adoption. The
transition methods include prospective and retroactive adoption options. The
Company has begun, but has not completed, evaluating the impact of the adoption
of SFAS 123R on its results of operations. In connection with evaluating the
impact of SFAS 123R, the Company is considering the potential implementation of
different valuation methods to determine the fair value of share-based
compensation. The Company believes the adoption of SFAS 123R will not have a
material impact on our results of operations, regardless of the valuation
method used.  

   11.          INTERIM FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)   

  In September 2004,
the Company discovered that the former Chief Financial Officer of its UK
subsidiary misappropriated funds from the Company s UK subsidiary and a
customer of such subsidiary. The Company terminated the employee, undertook a
full-scale investigation of the matter, retained a forensic auditing firm and
dismissed the accounting firm in the UK that audited the UK subsidiary s
financial books and records. Based upon the estimates of the Company s forensic
auditor, it was determined that the former employee misappropriated
approximately $924,000 from the Company s UK subsidiary and approximately
$344,000 from a customer of such subsidiary beginning approximately in January
2001 and continuing until September 2004. Further, the Company spent
approximately $150,000 investigating the misappropriation. Through negotiations
with the former employee, the Company s UK subsidiary and its customer have
received an aggregate of approximately $1,495,000 including interest and an
additional $100,000 is expected to be recovered. The Company s UK subsidiary
has received a deed of guarantee in connection with this remaining obligation
and it expects to collect the remaining amount owed on or before February 15,
2008.  

  For the fiscal
year ending June 30, 2004, the misappropriation understated sales by $4,000 in
the quarter ending September 30, 2003. 
Product costs were overstated by $13,000, $2,000, $63,000 and $72,000
and selling and general  and
administrative expenses by $28,000, $43,000, $53,000 and $62,000 for the
quarters ending September 30, 2003, December 31, 2003, March 31, 2004 and June
30, 2004, respectively.  

  The Company
recorded account receivable amounts relating to the misappropriated funds of
approximately $857,000 and $545,000 at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003,
respectively, to the consolidated balance sheet.  At June 30, 2004 the consolidated balance
sheet accounts receivable amount also includes approximately $324,000 from a
Lancaster receivable relating to the misappropriated funds (see Note 12).  

   Fiscal 2006
Interim Financial Data   

  Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)  

39     

Fiscal 2005
Interim Financial Data   

  Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)  

12.                                       CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE
INTEREST ENITITY   

  The Company sells
certain products to and buys from Lancaster, a company established in the
U.K.  In accordance with FASB
Interpretation 46 (Revised December 2003),  Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities  (FIN 46 (R)), the Company determined that
Lancaster is a variable interest entity and that the Company is the primary
beneficiary of this entity.  The Company
was required to apply the guidance of FIN 46 (R) for periods ending after March
15, 2004, and accordingly, during the quarter ended March 31, 2004, the
financial statements of Lancaster were consolidated with those of the Company.  

  As of June 30,
2006, the consolidated financial statements included approximately $2,000 of
current assets and $95,000 of current liabilities related to Lancaster.   Sales and purchases between Lancaster and
the Company have been eliminated in consolidation, and the additional effects
of Lancaster on the Company s operations were not material.  

40  

SCHEDULE
II   

   K-TEL
INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   VALUATION
AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   

  Years ended June
30,  

  (In thousands)  

(1)               Exchange rate change 

  (2)               Uncollectible accounts
written off, net of recoveries 

41     

EXHIBIT
INDEX     

42     

43  

<EX-21>
 2
 a06-24410_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit
21   

   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   

  As
of June 30, 2006, subsidiaries of the Company and the jurisdiction in which
each company was incorporated are listed below. Unless other wise indicated,
all of the voting securities of each subsidiary are owned by K-tel
International, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries.  

  Dominion
Entertainment, Inc.  

  Minneapolis,
Minnesota (a Minnesota corporation)  

  K-tel Entertainment (CAN)
Inc.  

  Winnipeg,
Manitoba (a Canada corporation)  

  K-tel Entertainment
(U.K.) Ltd.  

  London,
England (an England corporation)  

  K-tel Direct Limited  

  London,
England (an England corporation)  

  K-tel (Australia) Pty.
Limited  

  Forbes,
N.S.W. Australia (an Australian corporation)  

  K-tel TV, Inc.  

  Minneapolis,
Minnesota (a Minnesota corporation)  

  K-tel Entertainment, Inc.  

  Minneapolis,
Minnesota (a Minnesota corporation)  

  K-tel Services, Inc.  

  Minneapolis,
Minnesota (a Minnesota corporation)  

  Dominion Vertriebs GmbH  

  Frankfurt,
Germany (a German corporation)  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 a06-24410_1ex23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit
23   

   CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We have issued our
report dated October 30, 2006,
accompanying the consolidated financial statements and schedule included in the
Annual Report of K-tel International, Inc. on Form 10-K for the year ended June
30, 2006. We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference of said report in
the Registration Statements of K-tel International, Inc. on Forms S-8 (File No.
33-18723 effective November 25, 1987, File No. 333-28815 effective June 9,
1997, File No. 333-65755 effective October 15, 1998, File No. 333-74471
effective March 16, 1999, File No. 333-31272 effective February 28, 2000, and
File No. 333-39022 effective June 9, 2000).  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-24410_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit 31.1   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)  

  I, Philip Kives, certify that:  

  1.                  I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of K-tel International, Inc.; 

  2.                  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

  a.                  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b.                 Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  c.                  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  a.                  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

  b.                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

  Date:  November
22, 2006  

/s/ Philip Kives 

Philip Kives  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 a06-24410_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31.2   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

  PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)  

  I, Kimmy Lockwood, certify that:  

  1.       I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of K-tel International, Inc.;  

  2.                        Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                        Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                        The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

  a.                                          Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b.                                         Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  c.                                          Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                                          The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  a.                                          All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

  b.                                         Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

  Date: November 22, 2006  

/s/ Kimmy Lockwood 

Kimmy Lockwood  

Principal
  Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 a06-24410_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit
32.1   

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   

   18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350,  
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In connection with
the Annual Report of K-tel International, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for
the period ended June 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Philip Kives, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

  (1)             The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)             The information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

  A signed original
of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

By 

/s/ PHILIP KIVES  

Philip Kives  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

November 22, 2006  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 a06-24410_1ex32d2.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit
32.2   

   CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO  
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In
connection with the Annual Report of K-tel International, Inc. (the  Company )
on Form 10-K for the period ended June 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Kimmy Lockwood,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

  (1)                                     The
report fully complies with the requirement of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)                                     The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

  A signed original
of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

By  

/s/   KIMMY LOCKWOOD  

Kimmy Lockwood  

Principal Financial Officer   

November 22, 2006  

</EX-32.2>

