<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061120_10-K_edgar_data_106040_0000892569-06-001395_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1729164</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>501069</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>6180</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>893275</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>75</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000892569-06-001395.hdr.sgml : 20061120
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061120122511
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000892569-06-001395
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061120
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061120

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WESTERN DIGITAL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000106040
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES [3572]
		IRS NUMBER:				330956711
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08703
		FILM NUMBER:		061228930

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		20511 LAKE FOREST DRIVE
		CITY:			LAKE FOREST
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92630
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9499325000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		20511 LAKE FOREST DRIVE
		CITY:			LAKE FOREST
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92630

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	GENERAL DIGITAL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730125

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JgG4Bqbz7wnrguOK37/e9hpPiaG10OJTC8mCb9b9UQnEk3+2qOkOkKs3Ld9HBIyX
 ITDnRhMsS0mqSC8OfTlrvw==

 0000892569-06-001395.txt : 20061120

10-K
 1
 a23647e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

Commission file number 1-8703 

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

(Exact Name of Registrant as
    Specified in Its Charter)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
     (949) 672-7000  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Name of each exchange 

Title of each class 

on which registered 

Common Stock, $.01 Par
    Value Per Share  

New York Stock Exchange 

Rights to Purchase
    Series A Junior  

New York Stock Exchange 

Participating Preferred
    Stock   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Exchange
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer         Accelerated
    filer  o      Non-accelerated
    filer  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant on December 30,
    2005, the last business day of the registrant s most
    recently completed second fiscal quarter, was approximately
    $4.0 billion, based on the closing sale price as reported
    on the New York Stock Exchange.

As of the close of business on November 10, 2006,
    221.7 million shares of common stock, par value
    $.01 per share, were outstanding.

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION 

INDEX
    TO ANNUAL REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K  

For
    the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2006  

Page 

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

4

Item 1A.  

Risk
    Factors  

14

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff
    Comments  

27

Item 2.  

Properties  

27

Item 3.  

Legal
    Proceedings  

27

Item 4.  

Submission of
    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

28

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for
    Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters,
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

29

Item 6.  

Selected Financial
    Data  

30

Item 7.  

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

30

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

42

Item 8.  

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

44

Item 9.  

Changes in and
    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure  

75

Item 9A.  

Controls and
    Procedures  

75

Item 9B.  

Other
    Information  

76

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors and
    Executive Officers of the Registrant  

77

Item 11.  

Executive
    Compensation  

80

Item 12.  

Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
    Stockholder Matters  

92

Item 13.  

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  

94

Item 14.  

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

94

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits and
    Financial Statement Schedules  

96

Signatures  

102

EXHIBIT 10.1.3    
     EXHIBIT 10.7    
     EXHIBIT 10.9    
     EXHIBIT 10.8.2    
     EXHIBIT 10.30.1    
     EXHIBIT 10.32.4    
     EXHIBIT 10.32.5    
     EXHIBIT 21    
     EXHIBIT 23    
     EXHIBIT 31.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.2    
     EXHIBIT 32.1    
     EXHIBIT 32.2    

Typically, our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to
    June 30 and consists of 52 weeks. However,
    approximately every six years, we report a
     53-week 
    fiscal year to align our fiscal quarters with calendar quarters
    by adding a week to our fourth fiscal quarter. The 2006 and 2005
    fiscal years, which ended on June 30, 2006 and July 1,
    2005, respectively, consisted of 52 weeks each. Fiscal year
    2004, which ended on July 2, 2004, was a
     53-week 
    year. Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific
    years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters,
    and references to financial information are on a consolidated
    basis. As used herein, the terms  we ,  us ,
     our  and  WD  refer to Western Digital
    Corporation and its subsidiaries.

We are a Delaware corporation that operates as the parent
    company of our hard drive business, Western Digital
    Technologies, Inc., which was formed in 1970.

Our principal executive offices are located at 20511 Lake Forest
    Drive, Lake Forest, California 92630. Our telephone number is
     (949) 672-7000 
    and our web site is http://www.westerndigital.com. The
    information on our web site is not incorporated in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Western
    Digital   ,
    WD   ,
    the WD logo, WD
    Caviar   ,
    WD
    Raptor   ,
    WD
    Scorpio  tm  ,
    WD
    Passport  tm  
    and My
    Book  tm  
    are trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc.
     and/or  its
    affiliates. All other trademarks mentioned are the property of
    their respective owners.

2

Table of Contents   

Forward-Looking
    Statements  

This document contains forward-looking statements within the
    meaning of the federal securities laws. Any statements that do
    not relate to historical or current facts or matters are
    forward-looking statements. You can identify some of the
    forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words,
    such as  may,   will,   could, 
     project,   believe, 
     anticipate,   expect, 
     estimate,   continue, 
     potential,   plan,   forecasts, 
    and the like, or the use of future tense. Statements concerning
    current conditions may also be forward-looking if they imply a
    continuation of current conditions. Examples of forward-looking
    statements include, but are not limited to, statements
    concerning: 

growth in demand for hard drives in the desktop, mobile,
    enterprise and consumer electronics markets and factors
    contributing to such growth; 

our expansion into new hard drive markets, such as consumer
    electronics, retail, and enterprise and into emerging geographic
    markets; 

increase in our sales of notebook hard drives and our
    on-going volume ramp of our
    Scorpio  tm   
      2.5-inch 
    hard drives; 

our planned use of new recording technologies; 

expectations regarding traditional seasonal demand trends and
    price declines for the hard drive industry; 

beliefs regarding the sufficiency of our cash, cash
    equivalents and short-term investments to meet our working
    capital needs; and 

beliefs regarding our operating performance and general
    industry conditions and their impacts on the realization of our
    deferred tax assets and the need to reduce all or a portion of
    our valuation allowance. 

Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
    uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
    materially from those expressed in the forward-looking
    statements. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we
    make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our
    business and operating results, including those made in
    Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as our other reports filed with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission ( SEC ). You are cautioned not to
    place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which
    speak only as of the date of this document. We do not intend,
    and undertake no obligation, to publish revised forward-looking
    statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of
    this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated
    events. 

3

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

General  

We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard
    drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks
    to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are key
    components of computers, data storage subsystems and many
    consumer electronic devices.

We sell our products worldwide to original equipment
    manufacturers ( OEMs ) for use in computer systems,
    subsystems or consumer electronics ( CE ) devices, and
    to distributors, resellers and retailers. Our hard drives are
    used in desktop computers, notebook computers, and enterprise
    applications such as servers, workstations, network attached
    storage and storage area networks. Additionally, our hard drives
    are used in CE applications such as digital video recorders
    ( DVRs ), satellite and cable set-top boxes
    ( STBs ), MP3 players, and USB thumb drives. We also
    sell our hard drives as stand-alone storage products and
    integrate them into our own WD-branded external storage products
    for purposes such as personal data backup and portable or
    expanded storage of digital music, photography, video, and other
    data.

Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. Our hard drives currently include
     3.5-inch, 
     2.5-inch  and
     1.0-inch 
    form factor drives. The
     3.5-inch 
    form factor drives have capacities ranging from 36 gigabytes
    ( GB ) to 500 GB, nominal rotation speeds of 7,200 and
    10,000 revolutions per minute ( RPM ), and offer
    interfaces including both Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics
    ( EIDE ) and Serial Advanced Technology Attachment
    ( SATA ). The
     2.5-inch 
    form factor drives have capacities ranging from 40 GB to 160 GB,
    nominal rotation speed of 5,400 RPM, and offer both the EIDE and
    SATA interfaces. Our
     1.0-inch 
    form factor, with 4 and 6 GB hard drives, used primarily in
    miniature portable storage devices, have a nominal rotation
    speed of 3,600 RPM and use the
    CompactFlash   
    130 interface.

We assemble hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We also design
    and manufacture a substantial portion of our required magnetic
    heads, head gimbal assemblies ( HGAs ) and head stack
    assemblies ( HSAs ) in Fremont, California and Bang
    Pa-In, Thailand. For geographical financial data, see
    Part II, Item 8, Note 10 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Business
    Strategy  

Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality hard drives at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency. We believe this strategy
    helps accomplish the following:

distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive hard drive
    industry;

provides great value to our customers; and

allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital.

We have designed our business strategy to accommodate
    significant unit and revenue growth with relatively small
    increases in operating expenses and to consistently achieve high
    asset utilization.

Industry  

We develop and manufacture hard drives for the desktop, mobile,
    enterprise, CE and retail markets. We believe that growth in the
    sales of hard drives has outpaced growth in the sales of all
    desktop and notebook computers ( PCs ) over the past
    five years. Based on industry data, in calendar 2001 there were
    approximately 50% more hard drives sold in the market than PCs.
    In contrast, in calendar 2005 there were approximately 74% more
    hard drives sold in the market than PCs. We believe the
    following factors primarily drive this accelerating growth of
    hard drive sales versus PC sales:

consumer use of hard drives for the playing, retention, and
    creation of digital content for personal use in the rapidly
    growing CE market;

growth of the external hard drive or branded products market,
    permitting the easy storage and backup of data such as music or
    digital photographs;

4

Table of Contents   

increased use of multiple hard drives in PCs for data backup and
    expanded storage capacity; and

increased use of multiple cost-optimized high performance hard
    drives in data-intensive applications such as Internet search
    engines.

These factors and our product expansion efforts in the last two
    years have gradually increased our percentage of revenue derived
    from non-desktop sources. In 2006, 71% of our revenue was from
    desktop computers and 29% was from non-desktop sources, compared
    to 79% of our revenue from desktop computers and 21% from
    non-desktop sources in 2005.

For further discussion of the risks of the hard drive industry,
    please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

PC
    Market  

The PC market consists of the overall hard drive market for
    desktop and notebook computers. Consumers use PCs in homes,
    businesses and multi-user networks. PCs use software
    applications for word processing, spreadsheet, desktop
    publishing, database management, multimedia, entertainment and
    for other needs. Hard drives store both PC software applications
    and the data used by the applications.

We believe that the demand for hard drives in the PC market has
    grown in part due to:

the overall growth of PC sales;

the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their PCs;

the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and

the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto PC hard drives.

We believe several other factors affect the rate of PC unit
    growth, including maturing PC markets in North America and
    Western Europe, an increase in first-time buyers of PCs in Asia,
    Eastern Europe and Latin America, and the lengthening of PC
    replacement cycles.

Mobile
    Market  

We expect the mobile market, which consists primarily of
    notebook computers, to continue to grow faster than the desktop
    or enterprise markets in the next three years. We believe that
    the demand in the mobile market has grown from approximately 16%
    of the overall hard drive market in calendar 2003 to 21% of the
    overall hard drive market in calendar 2005.

As the mobile market evolves to a higher volume market, we
    believe customers are placing increased emphasis on attributes
    such as quality, reliability, execution, flexibility, and
    competitive cost structures of their hard drive suppliers. These
    are the same attributes that have mattered for many years to
    customers in the high-volume desktop market.

Enterprise
    Market  

The enterprise market for hard drives includes workstations,
    servers, network attached storage, storage area networks, and
    other computing systems or subsystems. Historically, hard drives
    for this market segment have utilized several interfaces,
    including the Small Computer Systems Interface
    ( SCSI ) and Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop. Beginning
    in 2003, these traditional enterprise interfaces have been
    supplemented or have been replaced in certain storage
    applications by SATA hard drives featuring an interface
    technology supported by industry standards. SATA hard drives
    typically cost less than SCSI hard drives while offering higher
    capacities and maintaining similar reliability, scalability and
    performance.

We believe that enterprise uses of SATA hard drives will
    continue to increase. During the past few years a new disk-based
     back-up 
    application has emerged with high-capacity SATA hard drives
    augmenting SCSI hard drives, tape and optical media. This new
    application, popularly referred to as  near-line 
    storage, has created a growth market because hard drives
     back-up  or
    access data more quickly than tape or optical solutions, and
    quickly retrieve critical
     back-up  or
    near-line data. The availability of SATA hard drive solutions,
    which are more cost effective than SCSI hard drives, promotes
    the increasing use of hard drives in near-line storage
    applications.

5

Table of Contents   

Enterprise-class SATA drives are becoming commonplace for
    IT infrastructure applications such as databases, scientific
    computing, web caching and electronic mail. These applications
    have become an important market for large capacity SATA hard
    drives. We believe that this market will consume a growing
    portion of the highest capacity hard drives in the next three
    years.

Consumer
    Electronics Market  

The use of hard drives in CE products has been a major growth
    area in recent years. Today s three largest segments of
    this market are:

digital video content in applications such as DVRs;

audio and video content in applications such as consumer
    handheld devices, including MP3 players; and

hard drives in game consoles.

Since 1999, DVRs have been available for use in home
    entertainment systems and they offer enhanced capabilities such
    as pausing live television, simplifying the process of
    recording, cataloging recorded television programs and quickly
    forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television
    program. Additionally, digital video disk ( DVD )
    recorders increasingly incorporate hard drives to allow for DVR
    functionality and faster recording of content onto removable
    DVDs. The market for these products favors large capacity hard
    drives and continues to grow in Japan, North America, and
    Europe. Additionally, the rest of Asia Pacific shows strong
    interest in this market. We believe growth in this market will
    continue to build demand for higher capacity hard drives.

Hard drives with
     1.8-inch  or
     1.0-inch 
    form factors primarily address the consumer handheld device and
    portable external storage markets. The majority of hard drives
    used in portable media players that play both digital audio and
    video content are
     1.8-inch 
    form factors.

External
    Hard Drive Market  

Most new PC systems include high-speed external interfaces, such
    as
    FireWire  tm  ,
    USB 2.0 or Ethernet network connections that permit users to
    supplement the storage space of their PC systems or home and
    small office networks with the use of external hard drives.
    Users store additional programs or multimedia content, and back
    up internal hard drives with external hard drives. Although
    external hard drives are a small part of the overall hard drive
    market, we believe that sales will continue to grow. External
    storage can often be the easiest, quickest or only way of adding
    additional storage capacity to either a desktop or notebook
    computer. In addition, there is opportunity for external storage
    in CE products as a way of expanding storage capacity in these
    devices.

Other
    Market Opportunities  

We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on significant investments we made over the last four
    years, we believe we now have the technology building blocks to
    increase our overall market penetration and be a full-line hard
    drive supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate
    approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach
    to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment
    of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such
    actions.

Products  

We offer a broad line of hard drives designed for various
    markets. We market our hard drives under brand names including
    WD
    Caviar   ,
    WD
    Raptor   ,
    WD
    Scorpio  tm  ,
    WD
    Passport  tm  
    and My
    Book  tm   . 
    These hard drives service the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE
    and branded products markets, and can be found in products
    including desktop

6

Table of Contents   

computers, notebook computers, enterprise storage, workstations,
    video surveillance equipment, networking products, DVRs, STBs
    and external storage devices.

Desktop
    Hard Drive Products  

Our hard drives designed for the desktop market currently
    consist of
     3.5-inch 
    form factor products with capacities ranging from 36 GB to 500
    GB and a nominal rotation speed of 7,200 RPM. These products
    utilize either the EIDE or SATA interfaces, providing high
    performance while retaining ease of use and overall low cost of
    connection. The type of EIDE interface currently used in our
    hard drives is ATA/100, which signifies a burst data transfer
    rate of 100 megabytes per second, which is the maximum
    specified data transition that can be sustained under ideal
    conditions. The SATA interface available in many of our hard
    drives enable burst transfer rates of up to 300 megabytes
    per second.

Mobile
    Hard Drive Products  

Our hard drives used in mobile products typically include
     2.5-inch 
    form factor drives for notebook computers. Although the desktop
    market accounts for a majority of hard drive sales, unit
    shipments of hard drives for notebook computers represent a
    growing share of the total. In 2005, we introduced our WD
    Scorpio  tm  
    hard drive family consisting of
     2.5-inch 
    form factor products with capacities ranging from 40 GB to 80 GB
    and a nominal rotation speed of 5,400 RPM. These products
    utilize the EIDE interface. In January 2006, we expanded our WD
    Scorpio  tm  
    line with 100 GB and 120 GB offerings, enabling us to address a
    greater share of the
     2.5-inch 
    mobile market. In addition, we added a family of products with
    the SATA interface in March 2006. In July 2006, we added an 80
     GB-per-platter 
    2.5 inch drive with perpendicular magnetic recording (PMR)
    technology to the WD
    Scorpio  tm  
    family providing as much as 160 GB total drive capacity.

Enterprise
    Hard Drive Products  

We offer multiple product lines to address enterprise market
    needs, including:

the WD
    Raptor   ,
    which is a 10,000 RPM enterprise-class drive with the SATA
    interface for enterprise applications requiring high performance
    and high reliability; and

the WD
    Caviar   
    RAID Edition (RE), which is a 7,200 RPM drive with capacities
    ranging from 120 GB to 500 GB. The WD
    Caviar   
    RE includes both SATA and EIDE interfaces and has enhanced
    reliability features and ratings when contrasted to our desktop
    products.

Both WD
    Raptor   
    and WD
    Caviar   
    RE drives may be used in, but are not limited to, applications
    such as databases,
     e-commerce 
    and super computing in life science, oil and gas and similar
    industries, business records management,
     e-mail,  file
    serving, web serving, near-line storage, medical records,
    engineering data management, video broadcasting and video
    security.

Consumer
    Electronics Products  

We offer hard drives designed for use in products such as DVRs,
    STBs, karaoke systems, multi-function printers, and gaming
    systems. These products deliver the characteristics CE
    manufacturers seek most   quiet operation, low
    temperature and power consumption specifications, high
    reliability and optimized streaming capabilities.

Branded
    Products  

We also sell a line of branded hard drive products and related
    adapters directly to end customers through retail store fronts
    and online stores. These include:

3.5-inch, 
     2.5-inch  and
     1.0-inch 
    form factor external hard drives, which are internal drives
    embedded into PC peripheral-style enclosures with the WD
    brand that have
    FireWire  tm  ,
    USB 2.0 and Ethernet network connections; and

internal hard drives packaged as an installation kit with the WD
    brand for retail store sales.

7

Table of Contents   

Research
    and Development  

We devote substantial resources to development of new products
    and improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering
    efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing
    processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective
    and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled
    $297 million, $240 million and $202 million in
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

For further discussion of risks related to our development of
    new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Technology
    and Product Development  

Hard drives record, store and retrieve digital data. Performance
    attributes of hard drives, such as their ability to access and
    transmit data and storage capacity, are currently better than
    removable or floppy disks, optical hard drives and tapes, and
    they are more cost effective than semiconductor technology. The
    primary measures of hard drive performance include:

Storage capacity    the amount of data that
    can be stored on the hard drive   commonly expressed
    in GB. As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals one
    billion bytes. A byte is a digital character, typically
    comprised of eight bits. A bit is a binary digit, the smallest
    unit of information in a digital system.

Average seek time    the time needed to
    position the heads over a selected track on the disk
    surface   commonly expressed in milliseconds.

Internal data transfer rate    the
    sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk  
    commonly expressed in megabits per second. One megabit equals
    one million bits.

Spindle rotational speed    the nominal
    rotational speed of the disks inside the hard drive  
    commonly expressed in RPM, revolutions per minute or latency.
    Spindle rotational speeds commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and
    10,000 RPM are sometimes approximations.

Acoustics    the sound power emitted during
    hard drive operation   commonly expressed in decibels.

All of our hard drive products employ similar technology. The
    main components of the hard drive are a head disk assembly and a
    printed circuit board. The head disk assembly includes heads,
    media (disks), head positioning mechanism (actuator) and spindle
    motor. A hard base plate protective package in a
    contamination-controlled environment contain these components.
    The printed circuit board includes both standard and custom
    integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer
    and a power connector.

One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub
    that rotates the disks comprises the head disk assembly. A thin
    coating of magnetic materials applied to a smooth substrate make
    the disk. Each disk has a head suspended directly above it,
    which can read data from or write data to the spinning disk.

The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board typically
    include a drive interface and a controller. The drive interface
    receives instructions from the computer, while the controller
    directs the flow of data to or from the disks and controls the
    heads. The location of data on each disk is logically maintained
    in concentric tracks divided into sectors. The computer sends
    instructions to the controller to read data from or write data
    to the disks based on logical track and sector locations. Guided
    by instructions from the controller, the head stack assembly
    pivots and swings across the disk by a head actuator or motor
    until it reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is
    recorded or retrieved.

Industry standard interfaces allow the hard drive to communicate
    with the computer. Currently, the primary interfaces for PCs are
    EIDE and SATA, and the primary interface for enterprise systems
    is SCSI. As computer performance continues to improve, the hard
    drive will need to deliver information faster. We believe this
    will continue to drive the PC industry transition to higher
    speed interfaces, such as SATA, to handle the higher data
    transfer rates. We currently offer our WD
    Caviar   ,
    7,200 RPM drives with the SATA interface and featuring
    capacities as large as 500 GB. We design these products for the
    PC, workstation, server, and external storage markets. We
    believe that SATA is also becoming a more popular interface in
    the enterprise market. We currently offer our WD
    Raptor   ,
    a 10,000 RPM enterprise-class drive with the SATA interface, and
    the WD
    Caviar   
    RE and RE2, 7,200 RPM drives manufactured to enterprise-class
    standards and available with a SATA interface.

8

Table of Contents   

The number of disks and each disk s areal density, which is
    a measure of the amount of data that can be stored on the
    recording surface of the disk, determines storage capacity of
    the hard drive. The higher the areal density, the more
    information can be stored on a single platter. Achieving a given
    drive capacity requires fewer disks as the areal density
    increases, potentially reducing product costs over time through
    reduced component requirements. Beginning in July 2006, we began
    shipping
     3.5-inch 
    hard drives with 160 GB per platter areal density and
     2.5-inch 
    hard drives with 80 GB per platter areal density.

Head technology is one of the variables affecting areal density.
    Historically, there have been rapid technological changes
    resulting in several generations of head technology in a
    relatively short time. However, in recent years the time has
    lengthened between changes in generations of head technology.
    Currently, the desktop hard drive industry uses giant
    magnetoresistive (including tunneling magnetoresistive) head
    technology, which allows significantly higher storage capacities
    than the previously utilized thin-film head technology. Most of
    our hard drive product offerings currently employ giant
    magnetoresistive head technology. Additionally, we have
    undertaken significant development efforts to implement
    perpendicular recording technology and we began using
    perpendicular recording heads in certain products beginning in
    July 2006.

The WD product line generally leverages a common platform for
    various products within product families with different
    capacities to serve differing market needs. This platform
    strategy results in commonality of components across different
    products within product families and, in some cases, across
    product families, which reduces exposure to changes in demand,
    facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower
    costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models.

In addition to the development of hard drives, we also invest
    considerable resources in the development of WD head technology
    used in the majority of our hard drive products. The design and
    manufacturing of WD heads consists of engineering and
    fabricating a read element for reading data from a disk, a write
    element for writing data to a disk, and slider. The slider
    functions similar to an airplane wing and allows the read and
    write elements to fly over the surface of the disk and to land,
    on either the disk or a special ramp, when power is not applied
    to the hard drive.

Fiscal 2006 represented the fourth consecutive year of
    substantial growth in our research and development and capital
    spending to support our significant broadening of our product
    and technology portfolios. Over that four-year period, we have
    grown our investment spending over 250% from $168 million
    in fiscal 2002 to approximately $600 million in fiscal
    2006. As a result of this investment activity, we continue to
    expand our business beyond the desktop market into newer markets
    or markets in which we have not previously participated. Such
    investments have allowed us to execute against our strategic
    objective of revenue diversification to address the growth of
    new applications for hard drives and fast-growing new market
    opportunities.

For an additional discussion of risks related to technological
    innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Sales and
    Distribution  

We sell our products globally to OEMs, distributors and
    retailers. OEMs purchase our hard drives and assemble them into
    the computer or other CE systems they build. Distributors
    typically sell our hard drives to non-direct customers such as
    small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Retailers
    typically sell our hard drive products directly to end-users.

Original
    Equipment Manufacturers  

Sales to OEMs accounted for 54%, 58% and 51% of our revenue in
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. During 2006, our major OEM
    customer was Dell. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales to Dell
    accounted for 12%, 16%, and 14%, respectively, of our revenue.
    We believe that our success depends on our ability to maintain
    and improve our strong relationships with the leading OEMs.

OEMs evaluate and select their hard drive suppliers based on a
    number of factors, including quality and reliability, storage
    capacities, performance characteristics, price, service and
    support, ease of doing business, and the supplier s
    long-term financial stability. They typically seek to qualify
    two or more providers for each generation of hard drives, and
    once an OEM has chosen its qualified hard drive vendors for a
    given product, it generally will purchase hard drives from those
    vendors for the life of that product. To achieve success with
    OEM qualifications, a hard drive supplier must consistently
    offer hard drives featuring leading technology, quality, and
    reliability at acceptable capacity per disk. Suppliers must

9

Table of Contents   

quickly achieve volume production of each new generation of high
    quality and reliable hard drives, requiring access to flexible,
    high-capacity, high-quality manufacturing capabilities.

Many of our OEM customers utilize
     just-in-time 
    inventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that combine
      build-to-order,  
    in which the OEM does not build until there is a firm order, and
     contract manufacturing,  in which the OEM contracts
    assembly work to a contract manufacturer who purchases
    components and assembles the computer based on the OEM s
    instructions. For certain OEMs, we maintain a base stock of
    finished goods inventory in facilities located near or adjacent
    to the OEM s operations.

For an additional discussion of risks related to our need to
    adapt to our customers  business models and maintain
    customer satisfaction, refer to Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Distributors  

We use a select group of distributors to sell our products to
    non-direct customers such as small computer and
    CE manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online
    retailers and other resellers. Distributors accounted for
    approximately 39%, 36% and 42% of our revenue for 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Distributors generally enter into
    non-exclusive agreements for specific territories with us for
    purchase and redistribution of product. We grant our
    distributors limited price protection rights.

Retailers  

We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs and
    computer electronics stores, and authorize sales through
    distributors to smaller retailers. Retailers accounted for
    approximately 7%, 6% and 7% of our revenue for 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Our current retail customer base is
    primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. The retail
    channel complements our other sales channels while helping to
    build brand awareness for WD and our products. Retailers supply
    end-users with products to upgrade their computers and
    externally store their data for backup purposes. We grant our
    retailers price protection and limited rights to return product
    on an inventory rotation basis. We also sell our branded
    products through the Internet, at our web site.

Sales and
    Marketing  

We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific,
    Japan, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales,
    which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of
    U.S. companies but do not include sales to
    U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 68%,
    65% and 63% of our revenue for 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Sales to international customers may be subject to
    certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
    including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For
    further discussion regarding the risks related to sales to
    international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

For additional information concerning revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and significant customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8   Notes 1 and 10 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms. We target advertising, worldwide
    packaging and marketing materials to various reseller and
    end-user categories. We utilize both consumer media and, to a
    lesser extent, trade publications. We have programs under which
    we reimburse qualified distributors and retailers for certain
    marketing expenditures. We also maintain customer relationships
    by communicating with our resellers and providing end-users with
    information and support through our web site.

Competition  

We compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives for
    desktop, mobile, enterprise and CE products. Our competitors in
    the hard drive market include Fujitsu Limited, Hitachi Global
    Storage Technologies, Samsung Electronics Incorporated, Seagate
    Technology and Toshiba Corporation. In 2006, Seagate completed
    the acquisition of Maxtor Corporation which, at the time of the
    acquisition, was one of the hard drive industry s four
    largest suppliers.

The hard drive industry is intensely competitive, with hard
    drive suppliers competing for sales to a limited number of major
    customers. Hard drives manufactured by different competitors are
    highly substitutable due to the industry mandate of technical
    form, fit and function standards. Hard drive manufacturers
    compete on the basis of product quality

10

Table of Contents   

and reliability, storage capacity, unit price, product
    performance, production volume capabilities, delivery
    capability, leadership in
     time-to-market, 
     time-to-volume 
    and
     time-to-quality, 
    service and support, and ease of doing business. The relative
    importance of these factors varies between customer and market
    segments. We believe that we are generally competitive in all of
    these factors.

We believe that there are no substantial barriers for existing
    competitors to offer competing products. Therefore, we believe
    that we cannot differentiate WD hard drive products solely on
    attributes such as storage capacity, buffer size or
     time-to-market. 
    Accordingly, we differentiate WD by focusing on operational
    excellence, high product quality and reliability, and designing
    and incorporating into our hard drives desirable product
    performance attributes. Such performance attributes include seek
    times, data transfer rates, intelligent caching, failure
    prediction, remote diagnostics, acoustics and data recovery. In
    addition, we emphasize non-product related attributes, including
    rapid response to our customers. Rapid response requires
    accelerated design cycles, customer delivery, production
    flexibility and timely service and support, which contribute to
    customer satisfaction. We also rely on the strength of the WD
    brand name with value-added resellers and solution providers to
    whom we sell our hard drive products directly and indirectly. We
    believe that trust in a manufacturer s reputation, its
    execution track record and the establishment of strategic
    relationships have become important factors in the selection of
    a hard drive, particularly in a rapidly changing technology
    environment.

Advances in magnetic, optical or other data storage technologies
    could result in competitive products with better performance or
    lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. High-speed
    semiconductor memory could compete with our hard drive products
    in the future. Semiconductor memory is much faster than magnetic
    hard drives, but currently is not competitive from a cost
    standpoint. Flash memory, a non-volatile semiconductor memory,
    is currently much more costly and, while it has higher
     read  performance attributes than hard drives, it has
    lower  write  performance attributes. Flash memory
    could become competitive in the near future for applications
    requiring less storage capacity than that provided by hard
    drives.

For an additional discussion of risks related to competition,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Service
    and Warranty  

We generally warrant our newly manufactured hard drives against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement of the hard drive. We have engaged third parties in
    Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Hungary, India,
    Korea, Russia, Singapore, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates
    to provide various levels of testing, processing
     and/or 
    recertification of returned hard drives for our customers. In
    addition, we process, test and recertify returned hard drives at
    our facility in the United States.

Manufacturing  

We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, execution skills and human resources to
    continue to be successful and have the ability to grow, as
    necessary, our manufacturing operations. To be competitive, we
    must manufacture high quality hard drives with industry leading
     time-to-volume 
    production at competitive unit costs. We strive to maintain
    manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, and
    reliable products, while insisting that our suppliers provide
    high-quality components at competitive prices. The critical
    elements of our hard drive production are high volume, low cost
    assembly and testing, and establishment and maintenance of key
    supplier relationships. By establishing close relationships with
    our strategic component suppliers, we believe we access
     best-of-class 
    manufacturing quality. In addition, we believe that our sourcing
    strategy currently enables us to have the business flexibility
    needed to select the highest quality low cost of ownership
    suppliers as product designs and technologies evolve.

Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a  clean
    room  environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.

We manufacture hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We
    continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to
    increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease
    manufacturing costs. For example, during 2002, in response to an
    increase in demand and to capitalize on the local supplier base,
    we completed the acquisition of a

11

Table of Contents   

Thailand manufacturing facility. We continually evaluate which
    steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation
    and how automated manufacturing processes can improve
    productivity and reduce manufacturing costs.

In July 2003, we purchased substantially all of the assets of
    Read-Rite Corporation, formerly one of our suppliers of heads,
    including its wafer fabrication equipment in Fremont, California
    and its slider fabrication facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand. We
    upgraded and enhanced these facilities to meet the demands of
    new technologies consistent with our hard drive production
    facilities. We use these facilities to design and manufacture a
    substantial portion of the heads, HGAs and HSAs we include in
    the hard drives we manufacture.

For an additional discussion of risks related to manufacturing,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Materials
    and Supplies  

The principal components currently used in the manufacture of
    our hard drives are magnetic heads and related HGAs, HSAs,
    media, controllers, spindle motors and mechanical parts used in
    the head disk assembly. We use both custom and standard
    semiconductor components such as logic, memory and
    microprocessor devices obtained from other manufacturers, as
    well as a wide variety of other parts, including printed circuit
    boards, connectors, cables, and other interconnect technology.
    We also design and manufacture a substantial portion of the
    heads required for the hard drives we manufacture. We purchase a
    portion of these components from third party suppliers.

We acquire all of the remaining components for our products from
    third party suppliers. We generally retain multiple suppliers
    for each of our component requirements but in some instances use
    sole sources for business reasons. For example, during 2006, we
    purchased media from several outside vendors including Fuji
    Electric, Hoya Corp., Komag Inc. and Showa Denko KK. We have
    volume purchase agreements with Komag Inc. and Showa Denko KK
    which obligate us to purchase from each supplier, and obligates
    each supplier to supply to us, certain specified media volumes
    in accordance with the terms in the agreements.

We sole-source some components, such as custom integrated
    circuit devices for certain products from STMicroelectronics and
    Marvell Semiconductor, Inc. Because of their custom nature,
    these products require significant design-in periods and long
    lead times. There has been a trend in integrated circuit design
    toward increased integration of various separate circuits. We
    expect this trend to continue in custom integrated circuits for
    hard drives.

For an additional discussion of risks related to our component
    supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Backlog  

Historically, a substantial portion of our orders has been for
    shipments of hard drives within 30 to 60 days of the
    placement of the order. We generally negotiate pricing, order
    lead times, product support requirements and other terms and
    conditions before receiving a computer manufacturer s first
    purchase order for a product. Customers  purchase orders
    typically may be canceled with relatively short notice to us,
    with little or no cost to the customer, or modified by customers
    to provide for delivery at a later date. In addition, we make
    many of our sales to OEMs under
     just-in-time 
    delivery contracts that do not generally require firm order
    commitments by the customer until the time of sale. Instead, we
    receive a periodic forecast of requirements from the customer
    and invoice the customer upon shipment of the product from the
     just-in-time 
    warehouse. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a
    particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels
    of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to earlier
    periods.

Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information  

We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our personnel.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.

In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these

12

Table of Contents   

safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use
    such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we
    conduct business may provide less protection for confidential
    information than the United States.

We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete
    successfully in the hard drive industry. For additional
    discussion of risks related to our ownership and use of
    intellectual property, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Environmental
    Regulation  

We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For additional discussion of risks related to
    environmental regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

Employees  

As of June 30, 2006, we employed a total of 24,750
    employees worldwide. This represents an increase in headcount of
    approximately 7% since July 1, 2005 and an increase of
    approximately 42% since July 2, 2004. Many of our employees
    are highly skilled, and our continued success depends in part
    upon our ability to attract and retain such employees.
    Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs, which we
    believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those offered by
    our competitors. We and most of our competitors nevertheless
    have difficulty at times in hiring and retaining certain skilled
    personnel. We have engaged consultants and contract personnel to
    fill these needs until full-time employees could be recruited.
    We consider our employee relations to be good.

Available
    Information  

We maintain an Internet web site at
    http://www.westerndigital.com. Our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available on our web site at http://www.westerndigital.com,
    free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
    electronic filing of these reports with the SEC. Any materials
    we file with the SEC are available at the SEC s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
    Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at
     1-800-SEC-0330. 
    In addition, the SEC maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC, including us.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    June 30, 2006, followed by a brief account of their
    business experience during the past five years. Executive
    officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of
    Directors at a meeting of the directors immediately following
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. There are no family
    relationships among these officers nor any arrangements or
    understandings between any officer and any other person pursuant
    to which an officer was selected.

Name 

Age 

Position 

Matthew E. Massengill

45

Chairman of the Board

Arif Shakeel(1)

51

Chief Executive Officer

John F. Coyne(1)

56

President, Chief Operating Officer

Raymond M. Bukaty

49

Senior Vice President,
    Administration, General Counsel and Secretary

Stephen D. Milligan

43

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

Hossein Moghadam

62

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Technology Officer

(1)  

As disclosed in the Company s press release on
    November 2, 2007, Mr. Coyne will become our President
    and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Shakeel will relinquish
    the role of Chief Executive Officer but will continue to be
    employed by us as Special Advisor to the Chief Executive
    Officer. Mr. Coyne has joined our Board of Directors and
    will stand for election at the next Annual Meeting along with
    Mr. Shakeel. 

13

Table of Contents   

Mr. Massengill joined us in 1985 and has served in various
    executive capacities. From October 1999 until January 2000, he
    served as Chief Operating Officer, from January 2000 until
    January 2002, he served as President, and from January 2000
    until October 2005, he served as Chief Executive Officer. He has
    served as Chairman of the Board since November 2001.

Mr. Shakeel joined us in 1985 and has served in various
    executive capacities. From February 2000 until April 2001, he
    served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Hard
    Disk Drive Solutions, from April 2001 until January 2003, he
    served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer,
    and from January 2002 until June 2006, he served as President.
    He was named Chief Executive Officer in October 2005.

Mr. Coyne joined us in 1983 and has served in various
    executive capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005,
    Mr. Coyne served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Operations, from June 2005 until September 2005, he served as
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations and from November
    2005 until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named
    President, Chief Operating Officer.

Mr. Bukaty joined us in 1999 as Vice President, Corporate
    Law. Mr. Bukaty was appointed to Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary in March 2002, and to Senior Vice
    President in January 2004, and assumed his current position as
    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary in October 2004.

Mr. Milligan joined us in September 2002 as Vice President,
    Finance. He was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer in January 2004. Before joining us,
    Mr. Milligan served in a variety of senior finance
    capacities at Dell between April 1997 and September 2002,
    including Assistant Controller, European Controller, North
    European Finance Director, Director of Finance for the Americas,
    and Controller for Dell Financial Services.

Dr. Moghadam joined us in October 2000 as Vice President,
    Engineering and site manager of our San Jose facility. He
    served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development from
    November 2004 to November 2005 and was appointed Senior Vice
    President and Chief Technology Officer in November 2005.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Declines
    in average selling prices ( ASPs ) in the hard drive
    industry adversely affect our operating results.  

The hard drive industry historically has experienced declining
    ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as
    a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity,
    liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain
    market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the
    mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products
    increase relative to those of higher priced products. If ASPs in
    the hard drive industry continue to decline, then our ASPs will
    also likely decline, which would adversely affect our operating
    results.

If we
    fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets
    for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.  

Over the past few years the consumer market for computers has
    shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. If we are
    not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive
    for the low-cost PC market, our share of that market will likely
    fall, which could harm our operating results.

The market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of
    devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we,
    that as content increasingly convert to digital technology from
    the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and
    consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives
    will be found in many CE products other than computers.

In addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media
    applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high
    capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow.
    However, because this market remains relatively new, accurate
    forecasts for future growth remain challenging. Moreover, some
    of the devices, such as personal video recorders and digital
    video recorders, or other products outside of the CE market, may
    require attributes not currently offered in our products,
    resulting in a need to expend capital to develop new interfaces,
    form factors, technical specifications or hard drive features,
    increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding
    incremental revenue at this stage. If we are not successful in
    continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to
    develop new products for the emerging CE market, or if we are
    required to incur significant costs in developing such products,
    it may harm our operating results.

14

Table of Contents   

Our
    prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable
    end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives.  

Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems
    manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to
    existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in
    the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand
    for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive
    market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead
    to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price
    competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be
    forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which
    could result in lower revenue and gross margins.

Our
    failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for
    our products could adversely affect our business and financial
    results.  

The hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately
    forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The
    variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part
    on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market
    demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our
    forecasts, then we could experience periods of product
    oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial
    performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand,
    of if market demand increases significantly beyond our
    forecasts, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product
    needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our
    competitors are able to meet customer demands.

We also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment
    of our resources. For example, as the hard drive industry
    transitions from the Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment
    ( PATA ) interface to the SATA interface, we may
    invest more resources in the development of products using the
    SATA interface. If our forecasts regarding the replacement of
    the PATA interface with the SATA interface are inaccurate, we
    may not have products available to meet our customers 
    needs.

In addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers,
    they are not obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. In
    particular, sales volumes in the distribution channel are
    volatile and harder to predict than sales to our OEM customers.
    We consider these forecasts in determining our component needs
    and our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately
    forecast our customers  product demands, we may have
    inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components,
    which could adversely affect our operating results.

Increases
    in areal density may outpace customers  demand for storage
    capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing
    to pay for new products.  

Historically, the industry has experienced periods of increased
    areal density growth rates. Although in recent years there has
    been a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, if industry
    conditions return to periods of increased growth rates, the rate
    of increase in areal density may exceed the increase in our
    customers  demand for aggregate storage capacity.
    Furthermore, our customers  demand for storage capacity may
    not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result
    of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital
    rights management or otherwise. These factors could lead to our
    customers  storage capacity needs being satisfied with
    lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing
    our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand
    for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could
    adversely affect our results of operations.

A low
    cost structure is critical to our operating results and
    increased costs may adversely affect our operating
    margins.  

A low cost structure for our products, including critical
    components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of
    our business and our operating results depend on our ability to
    maintain competitive cost structures on new and established
    products. If our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost
    structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to
    match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive
    disadvantage to those competitors. Additionally, there are costs
    for certain commodity materials, an increase in which increases
    our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key
    components. For example, shortages of materials such as steel
    and aluminum increase our costs and may result in lower
    operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate
    these increased costs. The rising cost of oil also increases our
    costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable
    to pass such increased costs through to our customers.

15

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial
    results.  

Product life cycles have been extending since the middle of
    calendar year 2002 due in large part to a decrease in the rate
    of hard drive areal density growth. However, there can be no
    assurance that this trend will continue. If longer product life
    cycles continue, we may need to develop new technologies or
    programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to
    maintain competitive pricing for that product. This may result
    in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our
    gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our
    operating results. If product life cycles shorten, it may be
    more difficult to recover the cost of product development before
    the product becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of
    product development in the future could adversely affect our
    operating results.

If we
    fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to
    increase areal density, we may fail to remain
    competitive.  

New products in the hard drive market typically require higher
    areal densities than previous product generations, posing
    formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal
    densities require existing head and media technology to be
    improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on
    a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products
    during a technology transition increases the likelihood of
    unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality
    new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put
    us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these
    results.

A
    fundamental change in recording technology could result in
    significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us
    at a competitive disadvantage.  

Currently the majority of the hard drive industry uses giant
    magnetoresistive head technology, which allows significantly
    higher storage capacities than the previously utilized thin-film
    head technology. However, the industry is developing and now
    implementing new recording technologies that may enable greater
    recording densities than currently available using
    magnetoresistive head technology, including perpendicular,
    current
     perpendicular-to-plane, 
    and tunneling junction technology, each of which represent a
    significant change in fundamental recording technology. The
    industry is experiencing a fundamental shift in recording
    technology, this shift in technology is difficult to implement
    and historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental
    change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to
    successfully and timely adjust their designs and processes to
    accommodate the new technology, fails to remain competitive.
    There are some technologies, such as heat assisted magnetic
    recording, that, if they can be implemented by a competitor on a
    commercially viable basis, will represent a revolutionary
    recording technology that could put us at a competitive
    disadvantage.

As a result, we could incur substantial costs in developing new
    technologies, such as, heads, media, and tools to remain
    competitive. If we fail to successfully implement these new
    technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our
    competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able
    to offer products with capacities that our customers desire.
    Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new
    technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to
    ensure our access to components that accommodate the new
    technology. For example, new recording technology requires
    changes in the manufacturing process of media, which may cause
    longer production times and reduce the overall availability of
    media in the industry. Additionally, the new technology requires
    a greater degree of integration between heads and media which
    may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this
    technology. These results would increase our operating costs,
    which may negatively impact our operating results.

The
    difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of
    areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may
    impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost
    reduction.  

Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is
    determined by the number of disks and each disk s areal
    density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic
    bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk.
    Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information
    can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been
    able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through
    increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that
    the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same
    capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost.
    However, because increases in areal density have become more
    difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require
    increases in component costs. In addition, other opportunities
    to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. Our
    inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our
    operating results.

16

Table of Contents   

If we
    fail to maintain effective relationships with our major
    component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at
    risk and our profitability could suffer.  

Under our business model, we do not manufacture many of the
    component parts used in our hard drives, however, for some of
    our product families, we do make most of our own heads. As a
    result, the success of our products depends on our ability to
    gain access to and integrate parts that are  best in
    class  from reliable component suppliers. To do so, we must
    effectively manage our relationships with our major component
    suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products
    from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on
    technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations
    of heads and media components. In August 2003, we settled
    litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of
    read channel devices for our hard drives. As a result of the
    disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was
    at risk until another supplier s read channel devices could
    be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other
    strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our
    operating results.

Dependence
    on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and
    manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or
    increased costs.  

Certain components are available from a limited number of
    suppliers. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers
    for certain hard drive components and manufacturing equipment,
    each of the following could significantly harm our operating
    results:

an increase in the cost of such components or equipment;

an extended shortage of required components or equipment;

consolidation of key suppliers;

failure of a key supplier s business process; or

the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, adjust to
    market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production
    requirements.

Our future operating results may also depend substantially on
    our suppliers  ability to timely qualify their components
    in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these
    components in sufficient volumes to meet our production
    requirements. A number of the components that we use are
    available from only a single or limited number of qualified
    outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product
    lines. In addition, some of the components (or component types)
    used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile
    telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant
    simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or
    component type) from several high volume industries, resulting
    in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short
    supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue
    with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in
    obtaining that component. For example, the hard drive industry
    is currently facing a tightness in the availability of media
    (rotating magnetic disks) components, and there are currently
    only three independent suppliers of aluminum media and three
    independent suppliers of glass media in the market. Several of
    our competitors have an internal supply of media therefore
    allowing them to better withstand a shortage of media while, if
    we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of media, or other
    necessary components, we may experience production delays which
    could cause us loss of revenue. If a component becomes
    unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue.

In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or
    testing processes is available only from a limited number of
    suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times
    could be in short supply. If these materials are not available,
    or are not available in the quantities we require for our
    manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture
    our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant
    loss of revenue.

Contractual
    commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying
    increased charges and cash advances for such
    components.  

To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide
    significant lead times when buying these components. As a
    result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel
    orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions or
    when our component needs change. In addition, we have entered
    into contractual commitments with component suppliers, such as
    suppliers of media, and may enter into contractual commitments
    with other

17

Table of Contents   

component suppliers, in an effort to increase and stabilize the
    supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such
    components at favorable prices. Some of these commitments
    require or may require us to buy a substantial number of
    components from the supplier or make significant cash advances
    to the supplier, however these commitments may not result in a
    satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such
    components.

We have
    high-volume hard drive manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and
    Thailand, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any
    of these facilities and localized risks to personnel in these
    locations.  

Our hard drives are manufactured in facilities in Malaysia and
    Thailand. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition
    or event such as a power outage that adversely affects any of
    these facilities or our ability to manufacture could limit the
    total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture and
    result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating
    results. Similarly, a localized health risk affecting our
    personnel in Malaysia and Thailand, such as a new pandemic
    influenza in Asia Pacific, could impair the total volume of hard
    drives that we are able to manufacture.

Our head
    manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication
    facility in Fremont, California and a single head gimbal/head
    stack assembly facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, which subjects
    us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at either
    of these facilities are disrupted.  

As we have previously discussed in public statements, our
    business plan presently contemplates that we plan to design and
    manufacture approximately 70% of the heads required for the hard
    drives we manufacture. We fabricate wafers in our Fremont,
    California facility, and the wafers are then sent to our
    Thailand facility for slider fabrication/wafer slicing, HGA
    assembly and testing, and HSA assembly and testing. A fire,
    flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as
    a power outage that adversely affects our facilities in Fremont,
    California or Bang Pa-In, Thailand would significantly affect
    our supply of heads and limit our ability to manufacture hard
    drives which would result in a substantial loss of sales and
    revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results.

Our head
    manufacturing operations may result in additional costs and
    risks to our business.  

Our vertical integration of head manufacturing resulted in a
    fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now
    manufacture heads for use in many of the hard drives we
    manufacture. Consequently, we make more capital investments than
    we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher
    percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial
    business model. If the overall level of production decreases for
    any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match
    sales, our head manufacturing assets may face under-utilization
    that may impact our results of operations. We are therefore
    subject to additional risks related to overall asset
    utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of
    utilization to drive competitive costs, and the need for assured
    supply of components, especially hard drive media, that is
    optimized to work with our heads.

In addition, we may incur additional risks, including:

insufficient head sources if we are unable to manufacture a
    sufficient supply of heads to satisfy our needs;

third party head suppliers may not continue to do business with
    us or may not do business with us on the same terms and
    conditions we have previously enjoyed;

claims that our manufacturing of heads may infringe certain
    intellectual property rights of other companies; and

difficulties locating suitable manufacturing equipment for our
    head manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such
    equipment.

If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our
    head manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be
    disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit
    margins and negatively impacting our operating results.

18

Table of Contents   

Our
    operating results may be adversely affected if we fail to
    optimize the overall quality,
     time-to-market 
    and
     time-to-volume 
    of new and established products.  

To achieve consistent success with our customers who manufacture
    computers, systems and CE products, we must balance several key
    attributes such as
     time-to-market, 
     time-to-volume, 
    quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. If
    we fail to:

maintain overall quality of products on new and established
    programs;

produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our
    customers demand while managing the integration of new and
    established technologies;

develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall
    specifications or features that our customers may require for
    their business needs;

obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products,
    redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing
    products;

qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by
    meeting all of our customers  needs for performance,
    quality and features;

maintain an adequate supply of components required to
    manufacture our products;

maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our
    product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin
    speeds in response to changes in customers  product
    demands; or

consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered
    products, our operating results could be adversely affected.

If we are
    unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads with leading
    technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products
    may be significantly diminished, which could materially and
    adversely affect our business and financial results.  

Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a
    substantial portion of the heads used in some of the product
    families of hard drives we manufacture. Consequently, we are
    more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts
    and less able to take advantage of head technologies developed
    by other head manufacturers. Technology transition for head
    designs is critical to increasing our volume production of
    heads. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be
    successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and
    manufacturing heads for products using future technologies. We
    also may not effectively transition our head design and head
    technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the
    technologies necessary to satisfy our customers  product
    needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads we
    manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external
    sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. For
    example, we recently began using perpendicular recording heads
    in certain of our products. We face various challenges in
    ramping the manufacturing volume of these products and if we do
    not adequately address these challenges, or if we encounter
    quality problems with the heads we manufacture for these
    products, our continued shipment of these products may be
    delayed, impairing our ability to realize revenue from these
    products.

If we
    fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not
    purchase any units of a particular product line, which would
    have a significant adverse impact on our sales.  

We regularly engage in new product qualification with our
    customers. To be considered for qualification, we must be among
    the leaders in
     time-to-market 
    with our new products. Once a product is accepted for
    qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification
    process can result in our losing sales to that customer until
    the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of
    missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the
    limited number of high volume OEMs, which continue to
    consolidate their share of the desktop, mobile and CE markets.
    If product life cycles continue to be extended due to a decrease
    in the rate of areal density growth, we may have a significantly
    longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a
    new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive
    position. These risks are increased because we expect cost
    improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining
    gross margins on our current generation products.

19

Table of Contents   

We are
    subject to risks related to product defects, which could result
    in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in
    excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than
    anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability
    limitations.  

We warrant our products for up to five years. We test our hard
    drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of
    means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will
    reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become
    apparent until after the products have been sold into the
    market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will
    occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can
    be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during
    the product s warranty period, we may be required to
    replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may
    damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose
    market share with our customers, including our OEM customers.

Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions
    of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper
    installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the
    possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for
    estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We
    may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty
    provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues
    related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses
    are significant, it could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

Current
    or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop
    an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match.  

It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain
    an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or
    process technology, which may allow them to offer products or
    services that have a significant advantage over the products and
    services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity,
    performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes.

Higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served
    by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive
    manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while
    lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid
    state storage such as flash memory technology. Advances in
    magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage
    technologies could result in competitive products that have
    better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our
    products. If we fail to be cost competitive against flash
    memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors
    using semiconductor technology. For example, flash memory
    recently achieved improvements in their cost structure and we
    believe reduced their pricing, thus more effectively competing
    with our
     1.0-inch 
    hard drive product. If we are unable to lower the cost structure
    of future generations of
     sub-2.5-inch 
    form factor hard drive products through technology advances such
    as increased storage capacity, this product category could be at
    a competitive disadvantage to flash technology.

Further
    industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to
    our competitors.  

The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the
    past several years, including the recent acquisition of Maxtor
    Corporation by Seagate Technology. Consolidation by our
    competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources
    and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a
    competitive disadvantage. Additionally, continued industry
    consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component
    availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure.

Sales in
    the distribution channel are important to our business, and if
    we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if
    distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating
    results could suffer.  

Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
    We face significant competition in this channel as a result of
    limited product qualification programs and a significant focus
    on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain
    competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and
    support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors,
    and our operating results could suffer. We also face significant
    risk in the distribution market for hard drives. If the
    distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth
    rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer
    buying preference from white box to branded PCs, or we
    experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the
    distribution channel, then our operating results would be
    adversely affected.

20

Table of Contents   

The hard
    drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by
    significant shifts in market share among the major
    competitors.  

The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases
    in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price
    reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess
    inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition,
    rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and
    profitability of sales of existing products and increase the
    risk of inventory obsolescence. We also face competition from
    other companies that produce alternative storage technologies
    like flash memory. These factors, taken together, may result in
    significant shifts in market share among the industry s
    major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a
    loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating
    results.

Some of
    our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard
    drive industry may be able to sell disk drives at lower margins
    that we cannot match.  

Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their
    revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry.
    Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to
    achieve profitability, they may be able to sell hard drives at
    lower margins and operate their hard drive business unit at a
    loss while still remaining profitable overall. In addition, if
    these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products
    to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard
    drives at low margins. Our results of operations may be
    adversely affected if we can not successfully compete with these
    companies.

If we do
    not successfully expand into new hard drive markets, our
    business may suffer.  

To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to
    offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We
    currently offer a variety of
     3.5-inch 
    hard drives for the desktop, enterprise, CE and external storage
    markets, and we also offer
     2.5-inch 
    form factor hard drives for the mobile, CE and external storage
    markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products
    in smaller other form factors, which our competitors may already
    offer. We recently entered into the
     sub-2.5-inch 
    hard drive market with a
     1.0-inch 
    hard drive product, however the demand for the
     1.0-inch 
    form factor drive is significantly less than our initial
    estimates of this market, thus impairing our ability to realize
    revenue from this product.

In addition, the desktop and enterprise markets are
    transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as PATA and SCSI,
    to serial interfaces, such as SATA and SAS, to handle higher
    data transfer rates. We currently offer SATA products; however,
    the transition of technology and the introduction of new
    products are challenging and create risks. For example,
    acceptance of the SATA interface may not continue to grow, or
    customers may choose to purchase alternative interfaces that may
    not be compatible with future generations of SATA hard drives.
    Moreover, our customers may require new SATA features that we
    may not be able to deliver in a timely and cost effective manner.

While we continue to develop new products and look to expand
    into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product
    introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including
    difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance,
    effective management of inventory levels in line with
    anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products
    may have quality problems or other defects in the early stages
    of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those
    products. Further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive
    markets that we are expanding into may have different
    characteristics from the desktop market, such as, demand volume
    growth rates, demand seasonality, product generations
    development rates, customer concentrations, and cost and
    performance requirements, and we must properly address these
    differences. If we fail to successfully develop and manufacture
    new products and expand into new hard drive markets, customers
    may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and
    we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products.

Expanding
    into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different
    seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our
    operating results.  

The CE markets that we are attempting to expand into have
    different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared
    to the PC market. By expanding into these markets, we become
    exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different than, and in
    addition to, those of the PC market. For example, because the
    primary customer for products such as consumer handheld devices
    and game consoles are individual consumers, these markets
    experience a dramatic increase in

21

Table of Contents   

demand during the winter holiday season. If we do not properly
    adjust our supply to new demand cycles such as this, we risk
    having excess inventory during periods of low demand and
    insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, therefore
    harming our operating results.

If we do
    not successfully continue to expand into the mobile market, our
    business may suffer.  

We began shipping
     2.5-inch 
    form factor hard drives for the mobile market during calendar
    year 2004. Although many of our customers who purchase
     3.5-inch 
    form factor hard drives also purchase the
     2.5-inch 
    form factor drives, the markets are characterized by some
    different competitors and different overall requirements. If we
    are unable to adapt to these differences and meet the new
    requirements, we would have a competitive disadvantage to
    companies that are successful in this regard, and our business
    and financial results could suffer. In addition, if we continue
    to incur significant costs in manufacturing and selling the
     2.5-inch 
    hard drives, and if we are unable to recover those costs from
    sales of the products, then we may not be able to compete
    successfully in this market and our operating results may suffer.

Selling
    to the retail market is an important part of our business, and
    if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market
    acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could
    suffer.  

We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers, for example, computer superstores and CE stores,
    and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and
    online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily
    in the United States, Canada and Europe. We are facing increased
    competition from other companies for shelf space at major
    retailers, which could result in lower revenues. If we fail to
    successfully maintain a customer preference for Western Digital
    brand products or fail to successfully expand into multiple
    channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. In
    certain markets, we are trying to grow market share, and in the
    process may face strong competition, which could result in lower
    gross margins. We will continue to introduce new products in the
    retail market that incorporate our disk drives. There can be no
    assurance that these products gain market acceptance, and if
    they do not, our operating results could suffer.

Loss of
    market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating
    results.  

A majority of our revenue comes from about a dozen customers.
    For example, during 2006, one customer, Dell, accounted for more
    than 12% of our revenue, and sales to our top 10 customers,
    including Dell, accounted for 47% of revenue. These customers
    have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can
    make substantial demands on us, including demands on product
    pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the
    allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we
    successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer
    generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of
    products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate
    its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain
    strong relationships with our principal customers is essential
    to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of
    our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require
    us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a
    customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key
    customer suffers financial hardship then our operating results
    would likely be harmed. In addition, if customer pressures
    require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are
    diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a
    particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our
    revenue.

We may be
    unable to retain our key personnel and skilled
    employees.  

Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key
    personnel and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely
    difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled
    employees in the hard drive industry is intense. Volatility or
    lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely
    affect our ability to retain key personnel or skilled employees
    who have received equity compensation. If we are unable to
    retain our existing key personnel or skilled employees, or hire
    and integrate new key personnel or skilled employees, or if we
    fail to implement a succession plan to prepare qualified
    individuals to join us upon the departure of a member of our key
    personnel, our operating results would likely be harmed.

22

Table of Contents   

Manufacturing
    and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous
    risks.  

We are subject to risks associated with our foreign
    manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts,
    including:

obtaining requisite United States of America and foreign
    governmental permits and approvals;

currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;

political instability and civil unrest;

limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time
    required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods
    of price declines;

higher freight rates;

labor problems;

trade restrictions or higher tariffs;

exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;

increasing labor and overhead costs; and

loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements
    or treaties with foreign tax authorities.

Terrorist
    attacks may adversely affect our business and operating
    results.  

The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war
    or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and
    insurance markets and have significantly increased the
    political, economic and social instability in some of the
    geographic areas in which we operate. Acts of terrorism, either
    domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and
    instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays
    of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products,
    our business, operating results and financial condition could be
    adversely affected.

We face
    litigation risks relating to our historical stock option grants
    that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of
    our business.  

Several purported derivative actions were filed nominally on our
    behalf against certain of our current and former directors and
    officers in connection with our historical stock option granting
    practices. See Part I, Item 3,  Legal
    Proceedings  for a more detailed description of these
    proceedings. We are and may in the future be subject to other
    litigation or government investigations arising in connection
    with such option practices. These proceedings may be
    time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business
    operations, and the outcome of any such proceeding is difficult
    to predict. The defense of such lawsuits or investigations could
    result in significant expense and the diversion of our
    management s time and attention from the operation of our
    business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business
    objectives. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay
    to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all
    of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance.

Under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our
    current and former officers and directors, we are required to
    indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with
    their participation in proceedings arising out of their service
    to us. These payments may be material.

The
    nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property
    and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of
    significant litigation.  

The hard drive industry has been characterized by significant
    litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and
    other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and
    other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy
    and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the
    results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in
    adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or
    be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the
    aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.

23

Table of Contents   

We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices
    of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to
    time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be
    required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our
    existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology.
    Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly.
    In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against
    us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for
    any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us
    in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued
    barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could
    also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or
    lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement,
    treble damages. Any of these results would likely increase our
    costs and harm our operating results.

Our
    reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary
    information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients
    of our business could be copied by competitors.  

Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary
    nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual
    property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to
    the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise
    capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or
    impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also,
    the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our
    intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the
    United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon
    employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and
    contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to
    protect our proprietary information. However, any of our
    registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be
    challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might
    harm our operating results.

Environmental
    regulation costs could harm our operating results.  

We may be subject to various state, federal and international
    laws and regulations governing the environment, including those
    restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic
    products and making producers of those products financially
    responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and
    disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have
    been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate,
    including various European Union member countries. For example,
    the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of
    Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (WEEE) directives. RoHS prohibits the use of certain
    substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard
    drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE
    directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic
    equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly
    identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to
    EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and
    provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the
    equipment. Each EU member country has enacted, or is expected to
    soon enact, legislation clarifying what is and what is not
    covered by the WEEE directive in that country. However, there is
    still some uncertainty in certain EU countries as to which party
    involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic
    equipment will be ultimately responsible for registration,
    reporting and disposal. Similar legislation may be enacted in
    other locations where we manufacture or sell our products, such
    as Asia. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws
    and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component
    suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If
    we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may
    refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws
    and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject
    to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if
    we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be
    subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If
    we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with
    environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses
    in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial
    condition or operating results could suffer.

Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates as a result of our international
    operations may negatively affect our operating
    results.  

Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs
    are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
    Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht and
    of the Malaysian Ringgit may negatively impact our operating
    results.

24

Table of Contents   

The Thai Baht is a free floating currency while the Malaysian
    Ringgit exchange rate policy recently defined by the Malaysian
    government is one of a managed float. We have attempted to
    manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by,
    among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts.
    However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can
    be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place.
    Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht, Euro and British Pound
    Sterling with forward contracts.

If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most
    foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged
    manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion
    of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated.
    Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues
    since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated.

Increases
    in our customers  credit risk could result in credit losses
    and an increase in our operating costs.  

Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model
    that requires us to contract directly with companies that
    provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because
    these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as
    our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to
    increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers
    may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate
    this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to
    expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging
    economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers
    in these regions may have a relatively short operating history,
    making it more difficult for us to accurately access the
    associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as a
    result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses
    from any significant customer, would increase our operating
    costs, which may negatively impact our operating results.

Inaccurate
    projections of demand for our product can cause large
    fluctuations in our quarterly results.  

We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in
    the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us
    to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter.
    In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be
    subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of
    other factors including:

the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major
    customers;

our product mix;

changes in the prices of our products;

manufacturing delays or interruptions;

acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our
    products;

variations in the cost of components for our products;

limited availability of components that we obtain from a single
    or a limited number of suppliers;

competition and consolidation in the data storage industry;

seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to
    technological advances; and

availability and rates of transportation.

Rapidly
    changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult
    to predict actual results.  

We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and
    assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting.
    The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly
    changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual
    results may differ significantly from our estimates and
    assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results
    in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key
    estimates and assumptions for us include:

accruals for warranty costs related to product defects;

25

Table of Contents   

price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and
    allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and
    distributors;

inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of
    cost or market value (net realizable value);

reserves for doubtful accounts;

accruals for product returns;

accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and

reserves for deferred tax assets.

The
    market price of our common stock is volatile.  

The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue
    to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may
    significantly affect the market price of our common stock:

actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;

announcements of technological innovations by us or our
    competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of
    sales of our existing products and increase the risk of
    inventory obsolescence;

new products introduced by us or our competitors;

periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price
    erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry
    consolidation;

developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights;

conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and
    content management, storage and communication
    industries; and

changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating
    specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general.

In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock
    market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from
    time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many
    high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be
    unrelated to the operating performance of the companies.

Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against
    companies after periods of volatility in the market price of
    their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against
    us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such
    matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of
    resources and management s attention.

We may be
    unable to raise future capital through debt or equity
    financing.  

Due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be
    unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital
    expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital
    and research and development. We have a credit facility which
    matures on September 20, 2009. If we decide to increase or
    accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development
    efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our
    expectations, we could require additional debt or equity
    financing. However, we cannot ensure that additional financing
    will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. An
    equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing
    stockholders.

If our
    internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial
    results or our stock price may be adversely affected.  

Our evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of
    June 30, 2006, in compliance with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal controls over financial
    reporting were effective. We believe that we currently have

26

Table of Contents   

adequate internal control procedures in place for future
    periods; however, if our internal controls are found to be
    ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be
    adversely affected.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

Not applicable.

Item 2.      

Properties   

Our corporate headquarters are located in Lake Forest,
    California. The Lake Forest facilities consist of approximately
    257,000 square feet of leased space and house our
    management, research and development, administrative and sales
    personnel. In addition, in Fremont, California, we own
    facilities consisting of approximately 189,000 square feet,
    and we lease facilities consisting of approximately
    97,000 square feet, that we use for head wafer fabrication,
    research and development and warehousing. We also lease
    approximately 213,000 square feet in San Jose,
    California, primarily for research and development activities.
    In addition, we lease one facility in Irvine, California, which
    consists of approximately 60,000 square feet that we use as
    a hard drive return and refurbishing center. We also lease
    office space in various other locations throughout the world
    primarily for sales and technical support.

We own a manufacturing facility in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia of
    approximately 484,000 square feet, which is used for
    assembly of hard drives, printed circuit boards and HSAs. We
    also own a manufacturing facility in Navanakorn, Thailand,
    consisting of approximately 226,000 square feet, which is
    used for assembly of hard drives. In addition, we own a facility
    in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, consisting of four buildings with
    approximately 902,000 square feet, which is used for slider
    fabrication, the assembly of hard drives, HGAs and HSAs, and
    research and development.

We believe our present facilities are adequate for our current
    needs, although the process of upgrading our facilities to meet
    technological and market requirements is expected to continue.
    New manufacturing facilities, in general, can be developed and
    become operational within approximately nine to eighteen months
    should we require such additional facilities.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

In the normal course of business, we are subject to legal
    proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We believe that any
    monetary liability or financial impact to us from these matters
    or the specified matters below, individually and in the
    aggregate, beyond what we have provided for at June 30,
    2006, would not be material to our financial condition. However,
    the ultimate amount of monetary liability or financial impact
    with respect to these matters is very uncertain and difficult to
    predict, and could therefore differ materially from our
    expectations.

The following purported shareholder derivative actions have been
    filed challenging conduct by certain of our current and former
    board members and officers in connection with various stock
    option grants:

Dreyfuss v. Massengill, et al., Case No. SACV
    06-729 AG (RNGx) , United States District Court for the
    Central District of California, filed August 9, 2006 and
     Kastella and Sakamoto v. Mercer, et al., Case
    No. SACV 06-868 CJC (MLGx) , United States District
    Court for the Central District of California, filed
    September 14, 2006. The plaintiffs in the  Dreyfuss
     and  Kastella and Sakamoto  actions jointly filed an
    amended complaint on September 29, 2006 asserting claims
    for violations of Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act, accounting, breach of fiduciary duty
     and/or 
    aiding and abetting, constructive fraud, waste of corporate
    assets, unjust enrichment, rescission, breach of contract, and
    violation of the California Corporations Code in connection with
    our option granting practices. We have been advised by
    plaintiffs  counsel that the parties intend to consolidate
    the  Dreyfuss  action with the  Kastella and Sakamoto
     action.

Mason v. Massengill, et al, Case
     No. CV06-6845 
    PA (RZx) , United States District Court for the Central
    District of California, filed October 27, 2006. The
    complaint asserts claims for violations of Section 14(a) of
    the Securities Exchange Act, accounting, breach of fiduciary
    duty  and/or 
    aiding and abetting, abuse of control, gross mismanagement,
    constructive fraud, waste of corporate assets, unjust
    enrichment, rescission, and violation of the California
    Corporations Code in connection with our option granting
    practices.

27

Table of Contents   

Lasker v. Massengill, et al., Case
     No. 06-CC-00159  ,
    Superior Court of the State of California for the County of
    Orange, filed August 14, 2006. The complaint asserts causes
    of action for breach of fiduciary duty, accounting, abuse of
    control, gross mismanagement, constructive fraud, corporate
    waste, unjust enrichment, and rescission in connection with our
    option granting practices.

Rosen v. Shakeel, et al., Case
    No. 06CC00234 , Superior Court of the State of
    California for the County of Orange, filed November 6,
    2006. The complaint asserts causes of action for unjust
    enrichment, breach of fiduciary duty, violations of the
    California Corporations Code, abuse of control, gross
    mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, accounting,
    rescission, and constructive trust in connection with our option
    granting practices.

We have joined the other defendants in filing a motion to
    dismiss the  Dreyfuss  and  Kastella and Sakamoto
     actions.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
    the fourth quarter of 2006.

28

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities.   

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
    ( NYSE ) under the symbol  WDC . The
    approximate number of holders of record of our common stock as
    of November 15, 2006 was 2,401.

We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do
    not intend to pay any cash dividends on common stock in the
    foreseeable future. Our $125 million credit facility
    prohibits us from paying cash dividends on our common stock.

The high and low sales prices of our common stock, as reported
    by the NYSE, for each quarter of 2006 and 2005 are as follows:

The following table provides information about repurchases by us
    of our common stock during the quarter ended June 30, 2006:

(1)  

Average price paid per share excludes commission. 

(2)  

Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase
    $250 million of our common stock in open market
    transactions. The term of the program is a five-year period from
    November 17, 2005 to November 17, 2010. 

(3)  

Represents shares delivered by employees to us to satisfy
    tax-withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock. 

(4)  

Represents 202,500 shares purchased in open-market
    transactions and 13,863 shares delivered by employees to us
    to satisfy tax-withholding obligations upon the vesting of
    restricted stock. 

29

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

Financial
    Highlights  

This selected consolidated financial data should be read
    together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related
    Notes contained in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and in the subsequent reports filed with the SEC, as well as the
    section of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and the other reports entitled  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations. 

We have adjusted our consolidated financial statements for the
    years ended July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004, as well as
    the selected financial data for the years ended June 27,
    2003 and June 28, 2002, to record additional non-cash
    stock-based compensation expense, and related tax accruals,
    resulting from stock options granted during fiscal years 1998 to
    2003 that were incorrectly accounted for under
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For
    additional information on the adjustments, see
    Item 7   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below
    and Part II, Item 8   Note 2 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(1)  

Reflects the cumulative effect of additional non-cash
    stock-based compensation expense for fiscal years 1998 to 2002
    resulting in a $12.7 million increase to accumulated
    deficit and a corresponding adjustment to additional paid-in
    capital. 

For additional information on the quarterly impact of the
    aforementioned adjustments on fiscal 2006 and 2005, see
    Part II, Item 8   Note 12 of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements.

No cash dividends were paid for the years presented.

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Forward-Looking
    Statements  

The following discussion and analysis contains
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
    securities laws. You are urged to carefully review our
    description and examples of forward-looking statements included
    earlier in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    immediately prior to Part I, under the heading
     Forward Looking Statements.  Forward-looking
    statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could
    cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed
    in the forward-looking statements. You are urged to carefully
    review the disclosures we make concerning risks and other
    factors that may affect our business and operating results,
    including those made in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as our other reports filed with the SEC. You are
    cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
    statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. We
    do not  

30

Table of Contents   

intend, and undertake no obligation, to publish revised
    forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
    after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of
    unanticipated events. 

Adjustment
    to Previously Issued Financial Statements  

We are filing this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended June 30, 2006 with adjustments to our
    consolidated financial statements for the years ended
    July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004 and the related
    disclosures. This
     Form 10-K 
    also includes adjustments to selected financial data as of and
    for the years ended June 27, 2003 and June 28, 2002,
    which is included in Item 6.

We have adjusted our consolidated financial statements for the
    years ended July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004, as well as
    the selected financial data for the years ended June 27,
    2003 and June 28, 2002, to record additional non-cash
    stock-based compensation expense, and related tax accruals,
    resulting from stock options granted during fiscal years 1998 to
    2003 that were incorrectly accounted for under
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    ( GAAP ). Our decision to adjust our financial
    statements was based on the facts obtained from an independent
    investigation into our stock option accounting that was
    conducted under the direction of a special committee
    ( Special Committee ) of our Board of Directors. The
    Board created the Special Committee, which was composed solely
    of independent directors, to conduct a voluntary,
    company-initiated review of matters related to past stock option
    grants, including the timing of such grants and associated
    documentation.

The Special Committee reviewed all option grants of the Company
    during the period from July 1, 1997 through June 30,
    2006 (the  Review Period ). The Special Committee
    reviewed corporate records and electronic documentation and
    interviewed current and former employees and directors. The
    Special Committee presented its investigative findings and
    recommendations to the Board of Directors and our independent
    auditors, KPMG LLP.

At the completion of its investigation, the Special Committee
    identified, and our management concurred, that the appropriate
    measurement date for 28 option grants made on 27 separate grant
    dates during the period from fiscal 1998 through fiscal 2004
    differed from the originally stated grant dates for such awards.
    Because the prices at the originally stated grant dates were, in
    19 of such instances, lower than the prices on the appropriate
    measurement dates for such grants, our management determined we
    should have recognized stock-based compensation expense and
    additional tax expense in our historical financial statements
    for these 19 grants. For the remaining 9 grants, since the
    prices at the originally stated grant dates were at or above the
    prices on the appropriate measurement dates for such grants, we
    determined that no accounting adjustment should be made for
    these grants.

Key findings from the Special Committee s investigation
    include:

Found no evidence that anyone manipulated the grant
    documentation or grant dates in order to avoid compensation
    expense or other financial statement impacts.

Found no misconduct by any member of our current management team.

For 19 grants made during the period from fiscal 1998 through
    fiscal 2003, our stock price at the appropriate measurement date
    was higher than the price on the originally stated grant dates.
    As a result, we should have recognized stock-based compensation
    expense and additional tax expense in our historical financial
    statements for these 19 grants. Based on these findings, we have
    determined we should have recognized approximately
    $21 million of stock-based compensation and tax-related
    expenses.

Approximately $13.2 million, before tax-related expenses,
    of these additional expenses were attributable to annual
    employee stock option grants made by the Compensation Committee
    in November 1998 and 1999 and a special employee grant made in
    March 2000 for which there was inadequate or no support for
    selection of the grant dates, and the grant dates were at a low
    price in the relevant period. These grants were made by
    unanimous written consent of the Compensation Committee of our
    Board.

The Special Committee concluded that the annual employee stock
    option grant made in November 1999 was intentionally dated with
    hindsight at a low price. While improper, no evidence was found
    that this action was taken to avoid compensation expense or
    other financial statement impacts.

31

Table of Contents   

Approximately $4.2 million, before tax-related expenses, of
    these additional expenses were attributable to annual employee
    stock option grants made in September 2001 and 2002. For these
    grants, acting at a meeting, the Compensation Committee approved
    specific grants for Section 16(b) Officers and an overall
    budgeted number of shares for grants to employees that were not
    Section 16(b) Officers to be allocated by later management
    action. The allocation of awards to employees that were not
    Section 16(b) Officers was not completed with finality by
    the grant date.

Approximately $1.0 million, before tax-related expenses,
    additional expenses were attributable to grants involving a
    variety of administrative errors, including errors in
    administration of grants to new hires and in connection with
    promotions, and errors in supporting documentation.

We determined that the cumulative pre-tax non-cash stock-based
    compensation expense resulting from revised measurement dates
    was approximately $18.4 million for fiscal years 1998 to
    2006. This additional compensation expense relates to stock
    options covering approximately 12.6 million shares.
    Additionally, we have recorded $2.5 million in tax-related
    expenses resulting from the recharacterization of incentive
    stock options to non-qualified stock options for fiscal years
    1998 to 2006. The following table summarizes the impact of the
    related adjustments (in millions):

The following table reflects the consolidated income statement
    classification of the additional stock-based compensation and
    tax-related expenses related to the adjustment for fiscal years
    1998 to 2006:

Cost of revenue

$

2.0

Research and development expense

12.2

Selling, general and
    administrative expense

6.1

Provision for income taxes

0.6

Total

$

20.9

The adjustments reduce previously reported diluted earnings per
    share ( diluted EPS ) by $0.01 each for both of the
    years ended July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004. Given that
    we have concluded that the foregoing adjustments were not
    material to our historical consolidated financial statements, we
    have not amended, and do not intend to amend, any of our
    previously filed annual reports on
     Form 10-K 
    or quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the periods affected by the adjustments. For additional
    information on the adjustments, see Part II,
    Item 8   Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Our
    Company  

We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard
    drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks
    and allows fast access to data. Hard drives are key components
    of computers, data storage subsystems and many consumer
    electronics ( CE ) devices.

We sell our products worldwide to original equipment
    manufacturers ( OEM ) for use in computer systems,
    subsystems or CE devices, and to distributors, resellers and
    retailers. Our hard drives are used in desktop computers,
    notebook computers, and enterprise applications such as servers,
    workstations, network attached storage and storage area
    networks. Additionally, our hard drives are used in CE
    applications such as digital video recorders ( DVR ),
    satellite and cable set-top boxes ( STB ), MP3
    players, and universal serial bus ( USB ) thumb
    drives. We also sell our hard drives as stand-alone storage
    products and integrate them into our own WD-branded external
    storage products for uses such as personal data backup and
    portable or expanded storage of digital music, photography,
    video, and other data.

Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. Our hard drives currently include
     3.5-inch, 
     2.5-inch  and
     1.0-inch 
    form factor drives. The
     3.5-inch 

32

Table of Contents   

form factor drives have capacities ranging from 36 gigabytes
    ( GB ) to 500 GB, nominal rotation speeds of 7,200 and
    10,000 revolutions per minute ( RPM ), and offer
    interfaces including both Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics
    ( EIDE ) and Serial Advanced Technology Attachment
    ( SATA ). The
     2.5-inch 
    form factor drives have capacities ranging from 40 GB to 160 GB,
    nominal rotation speed of 5,400 RPM, and offer both the EIDE and
    SATA interfaces. Our
     1.0-inch 
    form factor, with 4 and 6 GB hard drives, used primarily in
    miniature portable storage devices, have a nominal rotation
    speed of 3,600 RPM and use the
    CompactFlash   
    130 interface.

We assemble hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We also design
    and manufacture a substantial portion of our required magnetic
    heads, head gimbal assemblies ( HGA ) and head stack
    assemblies ( HSA ) in Fremont, California and Bang
    Pa-In, Thailand. For geographical financial data, see
    Part II, Item 8, Note 10 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Market
    Overview  

For calendar year 2005, we believe that the total market for
    hard drives was more than 380 million units, or almost
    $28 billion in sales. Over half of these unit shipments
    were to the desktop market. Total hard drive unit growth depends
    greatly on developments in the PC market. We believe that the
    demand for hard drives in the PC market has grown in part due to:

the overall growth of PC sales;

the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their PCs;

the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and

the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto PC hard drives.

We believe several other factors affect the rate of PC unit
    growth, including maturing PC markets in North America and
    Western Europe, an increase in first-time buyers of PCs in Asia,
    Eastern Europe and Latin America, and the lengthening of PC
    replacement cycles.

We entered the mobile market in the first quarter of 2005,
    commencing volume production of our WD
    Scorpio  tm  
    family of
     2.5-inch 
    hard drives for notebook computers. We expect the mobile market,
    which is primarily notebook computers, to continue to grow
    faster than the desktop or enterprise markets in the next three
    years. We believe that the demand for mobile drives has grown
    from approximately 16% of the overall hard drive market in 2003
    to 21% of the overall hard drive market in 2005. As the mobile
    market evolves to a higher volume market, we believe customers
    are placing increased emphasis on attributes such as quality,
    reliability, execution, flexibility, and competitive cost
    structures on their hard drive suppliers. These are the same
    attributes that have mattered for many years to customers in the
    high-volume desktop market.

The enterprise market for hard drives focuses on customers that
    make workstations, servers, network attached storage devices,
    storage area networks, and other computing systems or
    subsystems. We serve this market with hard drives using the SATA
    interface, which is similar in performance in some applications
    to the Small Computer Systems Interface ( SCSI ), but
    more cost effective than SCSI. We believe that the enterprise
    market has two distinct sectors: a marketplace for
    high-performance enterprise hard drives and a marketplace for
    high capacity enterprise hard drives. We believe that acceptance
    of SATA in both of these enterprise market sectors is growing.
    Additionally, we offer high-capacity, high reliability Parallel
    Advanced Technology Attachment ( PATA ) enterprise
    products to service video surveillance and similar PATA-based
    systems. Expansion of our involvement in the enterprise market
    may require us to make additional investments.

The use of hard drives in CE products has been a major growth
    area in recent years. Today s three largest segments of
    this market are: (1) digital television content in
    applications such as DVRs; (2) audio content in
    applications such as consumer handheld devices, such as MP3
    players; and (3) hard drives in game consoles. Since 1999,
    DVRs have been available for use in home entertainment systems
    and they offer enhanced capabilities such as pausing live
    television, simplifying the process of recording, cataloging
    recorded television programs and quickly forwarding or returning
    to any section of a recorded television program. The market for
    DVR products favors large capacity hard drives and continues to
    grow in Japan, North America, and Europe. We believe growth in
    this market will continue to build demand for higher capacity
    hard drives. Hard drives with
     1.8-inch  or
     1.0-inch 
    form factors primarily address the consumer handheld device

33

Table of Contents   

and portable external storage markets. The majority of hard
    drives used in portable media players that play both digital
    audio and video content are
     1.8-inch 
    form factors.

The branded products market for hard drives features storage
    products that we sell directly to end customers through retail
    store fronts and online stores. Our branded products include
    external hard drives, which are internal drives embedded into WD
    branded PC peripheral-style enclosures, which have
    FireWire  tm  ,
    USB 2.0 and Ethernet network connections; and internal hard
    drives that are packaged as an installation kit with the WD
    brand for retail store sales. We believe the worldwide demand
    for external hard drives is growing, spurred by consumers 
    and businesses  expanding use of digital content in the
    form of photographs, video and music   all of which
    consume large amounts of storage.

Results
    of Operations  

Fiscal
    2006 Overview  

In 2006, our net revenue increased by 19.3% to $4.3 billion
    on unit shipments of 73.3 million as compared to
    $3.6 billion and 61.4 million, respectively, in 2005.
    In 2006, 29% of our revenue was derived from non-desktop sources
    including CE products, enterprise applications, notebook
    computers and retail sales as compared to 21% in 2005. Gross
    margin increased to 19.1% from 16.2% in 2005. Operating income
    increased by $171 million to $366 million. Operating
    income increased to 8.4% as a percentage of net revenue in 2006
    compared with 5.3% in 2005. We generated $402 million in
    cash flow from operations in 2006 compared with
    $461 million in 2005, finishing the year with
    $699 million in cash and short-term investments, an
    increase of $100 million from the prior year. We utilized
    $54 million to repurchase 3.5 million shares of our
    common stock.

Summary
    Comparison of 2006, 2005 and 2004  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated,
    summary information from our consolidated statements of income
    (in millions except percentages):

34

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated,
    summary information regarding volume shipments, average selling
    prices ( ASP ) and revenues by geography, channel and
    product (in millions except percentages and ASP):

Fiscal
    Year 2006 Compared to Fiscal Year 2005  

Net Revenue.   Net revenue was $4.3 billion
    for 2006, an increase of 19.3% from 2005. Total unit shipments
    increased to 73.3 million as compared to 61.4 million
    for the prior year. This unit increase resulted from an increase
    in our desktop market share, stronger overall demand for hard
    drives in the desktop market and our increasing focus on the
    non-desktop market, including mobile, CE and branded products.
    For example, we shipped 5.4 million drives to the mobile
    market in 2006 as compared to 1.0 million units in 2005.
    Additionally, we shipped 6.7 million units to the DVR
    market in 2006 as compared to 3.6 million units in 2005.
    ASP remained at a relatively constant level of $59 due to an
    increase in the average storage capacity of hard drives sold
    offset by moderate price declines. Revenue contribution by
    geographic region for 2006 as compared to 2005 reflects our
    continued focus on revenue growth in emerging geographic
    markets, primarily in Asia. Changes in revenue by geography and
    by channel generally reflect overall market demand fluctuations
    for hard drives.

Gross Margin.   Gross margin for 2006 was
    $829 million, an increase of $239 million, or 40.5%
    over the prior year. Gross margin percentage increased to 19.1%
    in 2006 from 16.2% in 2005. Gross margin was favorably impacted
    in 2006 by the following factors: 1) manufacturing
    efficiencies, 2) lower customer returns resulting from
    ongoing quality improvements that favorably impacted warranty
    obligations, and 3) an increase in the average storage
    capacity of hard drives sold. Moderate price declines somewhat
    offset the favorable impact of the aforementioned factors.
    During 2006 and 2005, our warranty accrual for prior
    quarters  shipments was favorably adjusted by approximately
    $30 million and $1 million, respectively, as a result
    of improvements in quality and customer return rates and their
    expected impact on future levels of customer returns under
    warranty.

Operating Expenses.   Total operating expenses,
    consisting of research and development ( R ) and
    selling, general and administrative ( SG )
    expenses, were 10.7% of net revenue in 2006, as compared to
    10.9% of net revenue in 2005. R&D expense was
    $297 million in 2006, an increase of $57 million, or
    23.8% over the prior year. The increase in R&D expense was
    primarily related to the development of new product platforms in
    support of our entry into new markets, expenditures for advanced
    head technologies and an increase of $18 million in
    employee incentive compensation programs, of which
    $12 million related to the adoption of Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS )
     No. 123-R. 

SG&A expense was $166 million in 2006, an increase of
    $11 million, or 7.1% as compared to 2005. This increase in
    SG&A expense was primarily due to an expansion of sales
    resources to support increasing desktop computer demand in
    certain geographic regions, the growing mobile and CE markets,
    and an increase of $15 million in employee incentive

35

Table of Contents   

compensation programs, of which $7 million related to the
    adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R. 
    The 2005 fiscal period included a $19 million charge for
    the settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit.

Interest and Other Income.   Net interest and
    other income was $16 million and $5 million in 2006
    and 2005, respectively. This increase in net interest income was
    primarily due to higher average invested cash and short-term
    investment balances as well as increases in the rates of return
    on investments.

Income Tax Expense.   Income tax (benefit)
    expense was $(13) million and $4 million in 2006 and
    2005, respectively. Tax (benefit) expense as a percentage of
    income before taxes was (3.4)% and 2.0% for 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Differences between the effective tax rates and
    the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax
    holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various times
    ranging from 2008 to 2019. In addition to the tax holidays, the
    tax provision for 2006 was favorably impacted by
    $22 million given the partial reduction of our valuation
    allowance on deferred tax assets upon determination that it was
    more likely than not that a portion of our deferred tax assets
    will be realized. The realization of the deferred tax assets is
    primarily dependent on our ability to generate sufficient
    earnings in certain jurisdictions in fiscal years 2007 and 2008.
    A two-year period is used due to the difficulty in accurately
    projecting income for longer periods of time given the cyclical
    nature of our industry. This assumption may change in the future
    based on fluctuating industry or company conditions. The amount
    of deferred tax assets considered realizable may increase or
    decrease in subsequent quarters when we update our estimates of
    future income. The 2005 effective tax rate benefited by
    approximately 0.7% from the favorable resolution of certain tax
    contingencies.

Fiscal
    Year 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year 2004  

Net Revenue.   Net revenue was $3.6 billion
    for 2005, an increase of 19.4% from 2004. Total unit shipments
    increased to 61.4 million as compared to 48.3 million
    for the prior year. This unit increase resulted from an increase
    in our desktop market share, stronger overall demand for hard
    drives in the desktop market and our increasing focus on the
    non-desktop market. For example, we shipped 3.6 million
    units to the DVR market in 2005 as compared to 1.0 million
    units in 2004. The growth in total unit shipments was partially
    offset by a $4 per unit decline in ASPs to $59 per unit for
    2005. The changes in our revenue contribution by geographic
    region for 2005 compared to 2004 reflect our continued focus on
    revenue growth in emerging geographic markets, primarily in
    Asia. Revenue derived from OEMs increased in 2005 due to higher
    sales into the non-desktop markets, which are serviced primarily
    by OEMs.

Gross Margin.   Gross margin percentage
    increased to 16.2% for 2005 from 15.2% for 2004. The increase in
    gross margin percentage was impacted by continuing improvements
    in quality, manufacturing cost efficiencies and product mix,
    partially offset by unit price declines. Gross margin also
    benefited from the ongoing accretive benefit of our head
    manufacturing operations. Our 2004 gross margin was
    impacted by
     start-up 
    expenses and other charges totaling $18 million relating to
    our head manufacturing operations acquired in July 2003.

Operating Expenses.   Total operating expenses,
    consisting of R&D and SG&A, were 10.9% of net revenue in
    2005, as compared to 10.1% of net revenue in 2004. R&D
    expense was $240 million and $202 million for 2005 and
    2004, respectively. The increase in R&D expense was
    primarily related to the development of new product platforms in
    support of our entry into new markets, expenditures for advanced
    head technologies and an increase of $27 million in
    employee incentive compensation programs. R&D expense in
    2004 included a $26 million charge for acquired in-process
    research and development related to the Read-Rite asset
    acquisition.

SG&A expense was $155 million and $106 million for
    2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in SG&A expense
    was primarily due to an expansion of sales resources to support
    increasing PC demand in certain geographic regions and the
    growing mobile and CE markets and an increase of
    $16 million in employee incentive compensation programs.
    Fiscal 2005 included a $19 million charge for the
    settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit.

Interest and Other Income.   Net interest and
    other income was $5 million and zero for 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. The increase in net interest income in 2005 over
    2004 was primarily due to a higher average cash and short-term
    investment balance as well as an increase in the rates of return
    on investments.

Income Tax Expense.   Income tax expense was
    $4 million in both 2005 and 2004. Tax expense as a
    percentage of income before taxes was 2.0% and 2.6% for 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Differences between the effective tax rates
    and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to
    tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various
    times

36

Table of Contents   

ranging from 2008 to 2019. The 2005 effective tax rate was
    benefited by approximately 0.7% from the favorable resolution of
    certain tax contingencies.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

We ended 2006 with total cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments of $699 million, an increase of
    $100 million from July 1, 2005. Our investment policy
    is to manage our investment portfolio to preserve principal and
    liquidity while maximizing return through the full investment of
    available funds. A portion of our available funds is invested in
    auction rate securities, which are short-term investments in
    bonds with original maturities greater than 90 days. The
    following table summarizes the results of our statements of cash
    flows for the three years ended June 30, 2006:

Operating
    Activities  

Net cash provided by operating activities during 2006 was
    $402 million as compared to $461 million during 2005
    and $190 million for 2004. Cash flow from operations
    consists of net income, adjusted for non-cash charges, plus or
    minus working capital changes. This represents our principal
    source of cash. Net cash used to fund working capital was
    $173 million for 2006 as compared to net cash provided by
    changes in working capital of $129 million for 2005 and net
    cash used to fund working capital of $88 million for 2004.

Our working capital requirements depend upon the effective
    management of our cash conversion cycle, which measures how
    quickly a company can convert its products into cash through
    sales. The following table summarizes the cash conversion cycle
    for the three years ended 2006:

The change in the cash conversion cycle for 2006 was primarily
    due to increased inventory levels compared to 2005. In addition
    to the cash conversion cycle, cash flows from operating
    activities were negatively impacted by prepayments to suppliers,
    incentive compensation, and a legal settlement payment of
    $24 million. The improvement in the cash conversion cycle
    for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to better alignment
    in the timing of our inventory build and sales schedules. Cash
    flows from operating activities for 2004 were impacted by the
    payment of a $45 million litigation settlement.

From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our
    vendors. We make these modifications primarily to manage our
    vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our
    cash balances. Generally, we make the payment modifications
    through negotiations with or by granting to or receiving from
    our vendors payment term accommodations.

37

Table of Contents   

Investing
    Activities  

Net cash used in investing activities for 2006 was
    $337 million as compared to $314 million for 2005 and
    $259 million for 2004. During 2006, cash used in investing
    activities consisted of $302 million for capital
    expenditures and $35 million for short-term investments.
    During 2005, cash used in investing activities consisted of
    $233 million for capital expenditures and $81 million
    for short-term investments. The net cash used in investing
    activities for 2004 consisted of $132 million for capital
    expenditures, $95 million for the Read-Rite asset
    acquisition and $32 million for short-term investments. The
    increases in capital expenditures in 2006 and 2005 were
    primarily a result of assets purchased to upgrade our head
    manufacturing capabilities, increased desktop and mobile hard
    drive production capabilities and for the normal replacement of
    existing assets. Additionally, during 2006, we purchased our
    previously leased head wafer manufacturing facility in Fremont,
    California for $27 million. The increase in short-term
    investments in 2005 was a result of additional investments in
    auction rate securities. For 2007, we expect capital
    expenditures to be approximately $350 million to
    $375 million consisting primarily of investments in
    advanced head technologies, new product platforms and capacity
    for our broadening and growing product portfolio.

Financing
    Activities  

Net cash provided by financing activities for 2006 was
    $1 million as compared to net cash used for financing
    activities of $7 million for 2005 and net cash provided by
    financing activities of $21 million for 2004. The net cash
    provided by financing activities in 2006 consisted of
    $78 million received through the exercise of common stock
    options and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, offset by
    repurchases of our common stock totaling $54 million and
    repayments of long-term debt totaling $23 million. The net
    cash used in financing activities in 2005 consisted of
    $45 million used for common stock repurchases and
    $20 million for debt repayments partially offset by
    $58 million received upon issuance of common stock under
    employee plans. The net cash provided by financing activities
    for 2004 consisted primarily of $24 million received upon
    issuance of common stock under employee plans and
    $14 million in net proceeds from long-term debt partially
    offset by $16 million used for common stock repurchases.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

Other than facility and equipment lease commitments incurred in
    the normal course of business and certain indemnification
    provisions (see Capital Commitments below), we do not have any
    off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities,
    guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in
    transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material
    variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have
    any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the
    consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we do not have
    an interest in, or relationships with, any special-purpose
    entities.

Capital
    Commitments  

The following is a summary of our significant contractual cash
    obligations and commercial commitments as of June 30, 2006
    (in millions):

*  

Includes long-term purchase agreements entered into before
    September 15, 2006. 

38

Table of Contents   

Long-Term
    Debt  

We have a $125 million credit facility ( Senior Credit
    Facility ) consisting of a revolving credit line (subject
    to outstanding letters of credit and a borrowing base
    calculation) and a term loan. Both the revolving credit facility
    and the term loan mature on September 20, 2009 and are
    secured by our accounts receivable, inventory, 65% of our stock
    in foreign subsidiaries and other assets. For the year ended
    June 30, 2006, we had no borrowings on the revolving credit
    line and the average variable rate on our term loan was 6.5%.
    The term loan requires quarterly principal payments of
    approximately $3 million. Principal payments made on the
    term loan increase the amount of revolving credit available. At
    June 30, 2006, $97.5 million was available for
    borrowing under the revolving credit line, $25 million was
    outstanding on the term loan, and there was $2.5 million in
    outstanding letters of credit.

The Senior Credit Facility prohibits the payment of cash
    dividends on common stock and contains specific financial
    covenants. We are required to maintain an available liquidity
    level of $300 million at the end of each quarter. We define
    available liquidity as cash plus eligible trade receivables.
    Should our available liquidity be less than $300 million,
    we would then be subject to minimum EBITDA (earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) requirements and
    capital expenditure limitations. As of June 30, 2006, we
    were in compliance with all covenants.

The terms of the Senior Credit Facility require that we deliver
    to the lenders our audited financial statements within
    90 days of the end of each fiscal year. As a result of the
    independent investigation into our stock option accounting that
    was conducted under the direction of the Special Committee, we
    were delayed in completing our fiscal year 2006 audited
    financial statements, this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and our Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    as of and for the period ending September 29, 2006. At our
    request, the lenders under the Senior Credit Facility agreed
    that we would not be in default under the Senior Credit Facility
    as a result of our failure to timely deliver our 2006 audited
    financial statements, or the management discussion and analysis
    for our Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    as of and for the period ending September 29, 2006,
    provided that the lenders receive the 2006 audited financial
    statements, the management discussion and analysis for our
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    as of and for the period ending September 29, 2006, and all
    other documents reasonably requested by the lenders before the
    earlier of: (a) 30 days following the filing of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    or (b) January 12, 2007. We intend to deliver our
    audited financial statements to the lenders on or around the
    date of filing this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Purchase
    Orders  

In the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders to
    suppliers for the purchase of hard drive components used to
    manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover
    forecasted component supplies needed for production during the
    next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the
    components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time
    prior to shipment of the components. We may be obligated to pay
    for certain costs related to changes to, or cancellation of, a
    purchase order, such as costs incurred for raw materials or work
    in process.

We have entered into long-term purchase agreements with various
    component suppliers. The commitments are subject to minimum
    quality requirements. In addition, the dollar amount of the
    purchases may depend on the specific products ordered and future
    price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase
    requirements are included in  Purchase obligations  in
    the table above.

From time to time, we enter into other long-term purchase
    agreements for components with certain vendors. Generally,
    future purchases under these agreements are not fixed and
    determinable as they depend on our overall unit volume
    requirements and are contingent upon the prices, technology and
    quality of the supplier s products remaining competitive.
    These arrangements are not included under  Purchase
    obligations  in the table above. Please see Item 1A of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of risks related to these commitments.

Forward
    Exchange Contracts  

We purchase short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the
    impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying
    assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and
    product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See
    Part II, Item 7A, under the heading  Disclosure
    About Foreign Currency Risk,  for our current forward
    exchange contract commitments.

39

Table of Contents   

Indemnifications  

In the ordinary course of business, we may provide
    indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers,
    vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with
    respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to,
    losses arising out of our breach of such agreements, services to
    be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement
    claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into
    indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our
    officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify
    them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of
    their status or service as directors or officers. We maintain
    director and officer insurance, which may cover certain
    liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our
    directors and officers in certain circumstances.

It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount
    under these indemnification agreements due to the limited
    history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and
    circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such
    indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss
    clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a
    result of obligations under these agreements.

Stock
    Repurchase Program  

Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase
    $250 million of our common stock in open market
    transactions. The term of the program is a five-year period from
    November 17, 2005 to November 17, 2010. We expect
    stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash
    flows. During 2006, we repurchased 3.5 million shares of
    common stock at a total cost of $54 million. During 2005,
    we repurchased 4.8 million shares of common stock at a
    total cost of $45 million. Since the inception of the
    program and through November 10, 2006, we have repurchased
    10.2 million shares for a total cost of $115 million
    (including commissions). We may continue to repurchase our stock
    as we deem appropriate and market conditions allow.

We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs
    through the foreseeable future. Additionally, there can be no
    assurance that our Senior Credit Facility will continue to
    remain available. Also, our ability to sustain our working
    capital position is dependent upon a number of factors that we
    discuss in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    We currently anticipate that we will continue to utilize our
    liquidity and cash flows to improve the efficiency and
    capability of its existing hard drive and head manufacturing
    operations.

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of the
    financial statements requires the use of judgment and estimates
    that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets,
    liabilities and shareholders  equity. We have adopted
    accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in
    the industry in which we operate. We believe the following are
    our most critical accounting policies that affect significant
    areas and involve judgment and estimates made by us. If these
    estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact
    to the consolidated financial statements may be material.

Revenue
    and Accounts Receivable  

In accordance with standard industry practice, we have
    agreements with resellers that provide limited price protection
    for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list
    price reductions and other incentive programs. In accordance
    with current accounting standards, we recognize revenue upon
    delivery to OEMs and resellers and record a reduction to revenue
    for estimated price protection and other programs in effect
    until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers. We
    base these adjustments on anticipated price decreases during the
    reseller holding period, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to
    qualifying customers, as well as historical pricing information.
    If end-market demand for hard drives declines significantly, we
    may have to increase sell-through incentive payments to
    resellers, resulting in an increase in our allowances, which
    could adversely impact operating results.

We record an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing
    specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based
    on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition,
    we routinely analyze the different receivable aging categories
    and establish reserves based on a combination of past due
    receivables and expected future losses based primarily

40

Table of Contents   

on our historical levels of bad debt losses. If the financial
    condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in
    its inability to pay its accounts when due, or if our overall
    loss history changes significantly, an adjustment in our
    allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could
    affect operating results.

We establish provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for
    estimated sales returns in the same period that the related
    revenue is recognized. We base these provisions on existing
    product return notifications. If actual sales returns exceed
    expectations, an increase in the sales return accrual would be
    required, which could negatively affect operating results.

Warranty  

We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue
    is recognized. Warranty covers costs of repair or replacement of
    the hard drive over the warranty period, which generally ranges
    from one to five years. We have comprehensive processes with
    which to estimate accruals for warranty, which include specific
    detail on hard drive reliability, such as factory test data,
    historical field return rates, and costs to repair by product
    type. If actual product return trends or costs to repair
    returned products demonstrate significant differences from
    expectations, a change in the warranty provision is made. If
    these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the
    impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material.
    For a summary of historical changes in estimates related to
    pre-existing warranty provisions, refer to Part II,
    Item 8, Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements, included in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Inventory  

We value inventories at the lower of cost
     (first-in, 
    first-out basis) or net realizable value. We record inventory
    write-downs for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost
    or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and
    estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs
    and inventory balances.

We evaluate inventory balances for excess quantities and
    obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing backlog, estimated
    demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information,
    and reduce inventory balances to net realizable value for excess
    and obsolete inventory based on this analysis. Unanticipated
    changes in technology or customer demand could result in a
    decrease in demand for one or more of our products, which may
    require an increase in inventory balance adjustments that could
    negatively affect operating results.

Litigation
    and Other Contingencies  

We apply SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies,  to determine when and how much to accrue
    for and disclose related to legal and other contingencies.
    Accordingly, we disclose contingencies deemed to be reasonably
    possible and accrue loss contingencies when, in consultation
    with our legal advisors, we conclude that a loss is probable and
    reasonably estimable (Refer to Part II, Item 8,
    Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
    included in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K). 
    The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters
    involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The
    actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from
    management s estimates.

Income
    Taxes  

We account for income taxes under the asset and liability
    method, which provides that deferred tax assets and liabilities
    be recognized for temporary differences between the financial
    reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities
    and expected benefits of utilizing net operating loss
    ( NOL ) and tax credit carryforwards. We record a
    valuation allowance where it is more likely than not that the
    deferred tax assets will not be realized. Each period we
    evaluate the need for a valuation allowance for our deferred tax
    assets and we adjust the valuation allowance so that we record
    net deferred tax assets only to the extent that we conclude it
    is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be
    realized.

We record estimated liabilities for tax uncertainties. To the
    extent a tax position does not meet a probable level of
    certainty, a liability is established based on the best estimate
    of the amount that will not be sustained. However, the actual
    liability in any such contingency may be materially different
    from our estimates, which could result in the need to record
    additional tax liabilities or potentially adjust previously
    recorded tax liabilities.

41

Table of Contents   

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

We account for all stock-based compensation in accordance with
    the fair value recognition provisions of
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
     Share-Based Payment . Under these provisions,
    stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date
    based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense
    over the vesting period. Under
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    we are required to use judgment in estimating the amount of
    stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual
    forfeitures differ significantly from the original estimate,
    stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations
    could be materially impacted.

Prior to the adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    we accounted for stock-based employee compensation plans
    (including shares issued under our stock option plans and ESPP)
    in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees  and its related interpretations ( APB
    No. 25 ), and followed the pro forma net income, pro
    forma income per share, and stock-based compensation plan
    disclosure requirements set forth in SFAS No. 123,
     Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  All other
    types of equity awards were previously accounted for in
    accordance with SFAS No. 123.

The fair values of all stock options granted subsequent to
    April 1, 2005, were estimated using a binomial model and
    the fair values of all options granted prior to April 1,
    2005, and all ESPP shares were estimated using the
    Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. Both the binomial and
    the Black-Scholes-Merton models require the input of highly
    subjective assumptions.

New
    Accounting Standards  

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48
    ( FIN No. 48 ),  Accounting for
    Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for
    Income Taxes.  FIN No. 48 clarifies the
    accounting for income taxes by prescribing the minimum
    recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before
    being recognized in the financial statements.
    FIN No. 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
    measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting
    in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The
    interpretation applies to all tax positions related to income
    taxes subject to SFAS No. 109. FIN No. 48 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2006. Differences between the amounts recognized in the
    statements of financial position prior to the adoption of
    FIN No. 48 and the amounts reported after adoption
    should be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment
    recorded to the beginning balance of retained earnings. We are
    currently evaluating the impact the adoption of
    FIN No. 48 could have on our consolidated financial
    statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157
    defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
    value in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
    SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements
    issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007,
    and interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently
    evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS No. 157
    could have on our consolidated financial statements.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Disclosure
    About Foreign Currency Risk  

Although the majority of our transactions are in
    U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various
    foreign currencies. We purchase short-term, forward exchange
    contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations
    on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for
    operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign
    currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge
    transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency
    fluctuations on our results of operations. The contract maturity
    dates do not exceed six months. We do not purchase short-term
    forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, we
    focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the Thai
    Baht, the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. Thai Baht
    contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. All other
    contracts are designated as fair value hedges. See Part II,
    Item 8, Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements, included in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

42

Table of Contents   

As of June 30, 2006, we had outstanding the following
    purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in
    millions, except weighted average contract rate):

*  

Expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. 

In 2006, 2005 and 2004, total realized transaction and forward
    exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to
    our consolidated financial statements.

Disclosure
    About Other Market Risks  

Variable
    Interest Rate Risk  

At our option, borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility would
    bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to
    three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. If LIBOR or the
    base rate increases, our interest payments would also increase.
    At June 30, 2006, we had a $25 million term loan
    outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility. A one percent
    increase in the variable rate of interest on the Senior Credit
    Facility would increase interest expense by approximately
    $0.2 million annually.

43

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to
    Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule  

44

Table of Contents   

REPORT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors

Western Digital Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Western Digital Corporation and subsidiaries as of June 30,
    2006 and July 1, 2005, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, shareholders  equity and
    comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in
    the three-year period ended June 30, 2006. In connection
    with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we
    have also audited the related financial statement schedule.
    These consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
    to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
    position of Western Digital Corporation and subsidiaries as of
    June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005, and the results of
    their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in
    the three-year period ended June 30, 2006, in conformity
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also,
    in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
    considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
    statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
    respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company has adopted the provisions of Statement
    of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment,  on July 2, 2005 and
    accordingly, has changed its method of accounting for
    share-based compensation.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of June 30, 2006, based on criteria
    established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
    November 17, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
    management s assessment of, and the effective operation of,
    internal control over financial reporting.

/s/  KPMG
    LLP

Costa Mesa, California

November 17, 2006

45

Table of Contents   

REPORT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors

Western Digital Corporation:

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that Western
    Digital Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting as of June 30,
    2006, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
    of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
    The Company s management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on management s assessment and an opinion on the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Western
    Digital Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting as of June 30,
    2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, Western
    Digital Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of June 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
    of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Western Digital Corporation and
    subsidiaries as of June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005, the
    related consolidated statements of income, shareholders 
    equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the
    years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2006, and the
    related financial statement schedule, and our report dated
    November 17, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
    consolidated financial statements.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Costa Mesa, California

November 17, 2006

46

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS   

(in
    millions)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

47

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

(in
    millions, except per share amounts)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

48

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

(in
    millions)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

49

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY and COMPREHENSIVE
    INCOME   

(in
    millions)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

50

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Note 1.    

Organization
    and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Western Digital Corporation (the  Company  or
     Western Digital  or  WD ) designs,
    develops, manufactures and sells hard drives. A hard drive is a
    device that stores data on one or more rotating magnetic disks
    to allow fast access to data. The Company s hard drives are
    used in desktop computers, notebook computers, external storage
    devices, enterprise applications such as servers, workstations,
    network attached storage and storage area networks and in
    consumer electronics products such as personal/digital video
    recorders, satellite and cable set-top boxes and video game
    consoles. The Company sells its products worldwide to original
    equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) for inclusion in
    computer systems or subsystems, and to distributors, resellers
    and retailers.

Western Digital has prepared its consolidated financial
    statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) and has adopted
    accounting policies and practices which are generally accepted
    in the industry in which it operates. The Company s
    significant accounting policies are summarized below.

Fiscal
    Year  

The Company has a 52 or
     53-week 
    fiscal year. The 2006 and 2005 fiscal years, which ended on
    June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005, respectively,
    consisted of 52 weeks each. Fiscal year 2004, which ended
    on July 2, 2004, was a
     53-week  year.

Basis of
    Presentation  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant
    intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
    consolidation. The accounts of foreign subsidiaries have been
    remeasured using the U.S. dollar as the functional
    currency. As such, gains or losses resulting from remeasurement
    of these accounts from local currencies into U.S. dollars
    are reflected in the results of operations. These gains and
    losses were immaterial to the consolidated financial statements.

Cash
    Equivalents  

The Company s cash equivalents represent highly liquid
    investments, primarily money market funds and commercial paper,
    with original maturities of three months or less.

Short-Term
    Investments  

The Company s short-term investments consist primarily of
    auction rate securities, which are short-term investments in
    bonds with original maturities greater than 90 days. The
    Company has classified these investments as  available for
    sale  securities under Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards ( SFAS ) No. 115  Accounting for
    Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.  These
    investments are carried at fair value.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts
    receivable, short-term investments, accounts payable and accrued
    expenses approximate fair value for all periods presented
    because of the short-term maturity of these assets and
    liabilities. The carrying amount of the Company s term loan
    also approximates fair value.

Concentration
    of Credit Risk  

The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets hard
    drives to computer manufacturers, resellers and retailers
    throughout the world. The Company performs ongoing credit
    evaluations of its customers  financial condition and
    generally requires no collateral. The Company maintains
    allowances for potential credit losses, and such losses have
    historically been within management s expectations. At any
    given point in time, the total amount outstanding from any one
    of a number of its customers may be individually significant to
    the Company s financial results. At June 30, 2006 and
    July 1, 2005, the Company had reserves for potential credit
    losses of $4.6 million and $3.0 million, respectively.
    The Company also has cash equivalent and short-term investment
    policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one
    financial institution or investment instrument and require that
    investments be made only with financial institutions or in
    investment instruments evaluated as highly credit-worthy.

51

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Inventory
    Valuation  

The Company values inventory at the lower of cost
     (first-in, 
    first-out basis) or net realizable value. Inventory write-downs
    are recorded for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost
    or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and
    estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs
    and inventory balances. The Company evaluates inventory balances
    for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by
    analyzing backlog, estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales
    levels and other information, and reduces inventory balances to
    net realizable value for excess and obsolete inventory based on
    this analysis.

Property
    and Equipment  

The cost of property and equipment is depreciated over the
    estimated useful lives of the respective assets. The
    Company s buildings are being depreciated over periods
    ranging from fifteen to thirty years. The majority of the
    Company s equipment is being depreciated over periods of
    three to seven years. Depreciation is computed on a
    straight-line basis. Leasehold improvements are amortized over
    the lesser of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the
    related lease terms.

Intangible
    Assets  

Intangible assets consist of purchased technology acquired
    during the 2004 Read-Rite Corporation asset acquisition (See
    Note 4). These assets are being amortized over a weighted
    average period of three years.

Revenue
    Recognition  

The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with SEC Staff
    Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,
     Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements.  Under
    SAB No. 104, revenue is recognized when the title and
    risk of loss have passed to the customer, there is persuasive
    evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, or services
    have been rendered, the sales price is fixed or determinable and
    collectibility is reasonably assured. The Company establishes
    provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for estimated
    sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is
    recognized based on existing product return notifications.

In accordance with standard industry practice, the Company has
    agreements with resellers that provide limited price protection
    for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list
    price reductions and other incentive programs. Either party may
    terminate these agreements upon written notice. In the event of
    termination, the Company may be obligated to repurchase a
    certain portion of the resellers  inventory. The Company
    records a reduction to revenue for estimated price protection
    and other programs in effect until the resellers sell such
    inventory to their customers. These adjustments are based on
    anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period,
    estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, as
    well as historical pricing information. If end-market demand for
    hard drives declines significantly, the Company may have to
    increase sell-through incentive payments to resellers, resulting
    in an increase in price protection allowances, which could
    adversely impact operating results. Net revenue recognized on
    sales to resellers was approximately $2.0 billion,
    $1.5 billion and $1.5 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Repurchases of reseller inventory were not
    material in 2006, 2005 or 2004.

Western Digital establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts
    by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk
    of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection
    issues. In addition, the Company routinely analyzes the
    different receivable aging categories and its bad debt loss
    history and establishes reserves based on a combination of past
    due receivables and expected future losses based primarily on
    the Company s historical levels of bad debt losses. If the
    financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates
    resulting in its inability to pay its accounts when due, or if
    the overall loss history of the Company changes significantly,
    an adjustment in the Company s allowance for doubtful
    accounts would be required, which could affect operating results.

52

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Warranty  

The Company records an accrual for estimated warranty costs as
    products are sold. Warranty covers costs of repair or
    replacement of the hard drive over the warranty period, which
    ranges from one to five years and is recorded in the
    accompanying balance sheet as current or long-term based upon
    when the expenditure is expected to occur. The Company has
    comprehensive processes with which to estimate accruals for
    warranty, which include specific detail on hard drives in the
    field by product type, historical field return rates and costs
    to repair. Return rate and repair cost estimates are reviewed
    quarterly and updated to reflect the impact of current results
    on prior expectations. Although the Company believes that it has
    the continued ability to reasonably estimate warranty reserves,
    unforeseeable changes could cause a material change in the
    Company s warranty accrual estimate. Such a change would be
    recorded in the period in which it was identified.

Advertising
    Expense  

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, general and
    administrative expenses of the Company include advertising costs
    of $1.4 million, $1.5 million and $1.5 million in
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Income
    Taxes  

The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and
    liability method, which provides that deferred tax assets and
    liabilities be recognized for temporary differences between the
    financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the assets and
    liabilities and expected benefits of utilizing net operating
    loss ( NOL ) carryforwards. The Company records a
    valuation allowance where it is more likely than not that the
    deferred tax assets will not be realized. Each period the
    Company evaluates the need for a valuation allowance for the
    deferred tax assets and adjusts the valuation allowance so that
    the Company records net deferred tax assets only to the extent
    that it has concluded it is more likely than not that these
    deferred tax assets will be realized.

The Company records estimated liabilities for tax uncertainties.
    To the extent a tax position does not meet a probable level of
    certainty, a liability is established based on the best estimate
    of the amount that will not be sustained. However, the actual
    liability in any such contingency may be materially different
    from the estimates, which could result in the need to record
    additional tax liabilities or potentially adjust previously
    recorded tax liabilities.

Per Share
    Information  

The Company computes basic income per share using the net income
    and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
    during the period. Diluted income per share is computed using
    the net income and the weighted average number of common shares
    and potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the
    period. Potentially dilutive common shares include outstanding
    employee stock options, employee stock purchase plan shares and
    restricted stock awards. The following table illustrates the
    computation of basic and diluted income per common share (in
    millions, except per share data):

53

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

*  

For purposes of computing diluted income per share, common share
    equivalents with an exercise price that exceeded the average
    fair market value of common stock for the period are considered
    antidilutive and have been excluded from the calculation for
    employee stock options. 

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

Effective July 2, 2005, the Company accounts for all
    stock-based compensation in accordance with the fair value
    recognition provisions in
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
     Share-Based Payment.  Under the fair value
    recognition provisions of
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date
    based on the value of the award and is recognized on a
    straight-line basis as expense over the vesting period. Under
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    the Company is required to use judgment in estimating the amount
    of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If
    actual forfeitures differ significantly from the original
    estimate, stock-based compensation expense and the results of
    operations could be materially impacted.

Prior to the adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    the Company accounted for stock-based employee compensation
    plans (including shares or other equity instruments issued under
    its stock incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan) in
    accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
     Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and its
    related interpretations ( APB No. 25 ), and
    followed the pro forma net income, pro forma income per share,
    and stock-based compensation plan disclosure requirements set
    forth in SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation. 

The fair values of all stock options granted subsequent to
    January 1, 2005 were estimated using a binomial model and
    the fair values of all options granted prior to
    December 31, 2004 and all ESPP shares were estimated using
    the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. Both the binomial
    and the Black-Scholes-Merton models require the input of highly
    subjective assumptions.

Other
    Comprehensive Income  

Other comprehensive income refers to revenue, expenses, gains
    and losses that are recorded as an element of shareholders 
    equity but are excluded from net income. The Company s
    other comprehensive income is comprised of unrealized gains and
    losses on foreign currency contracts and marketable securities
    categorized as available for sale under SFAS No. 115.

Foreign
    Exchange Contracts  

Although the majority of the Company s transactions are in
    U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various
    foreign currencies. The Company purchases short-term, forward
    exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency
    fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and
    commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated
    in foreign currencies. The contracts have maturity dates that do
    not exceed six months. The Company does not purchase short-term
    forward exchange contracts for trading purposes.

The Company applies the provisions of SFAS No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities , as amended, which establishes accounting and
    reporting standards for derivative instruments embedded in other
    contracts and for hedging activities. The Company had
    outstanding forward exchange contracts with commercial banks for
    the Thai Baht, British Pound Sterling and Euro with values of
    $263.8 million and $151.4 million at June 30,
    2006 and July 1, 2005, respectively. Thai Baht contracts
    are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133.
    If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the
    effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative
    is initially deferred in other comprehensive income (loss), net
    of tax. These amounts are subsequently recognized into earnings
    when the underlying cash flow being hedged is recognized into
    earnings. Hedge effectiveness is measured by comparing the
    hedging instrument s cumulative change in fair value from
    inception to maturity to the underlying exposure s terminal
    value. The Company has determined that all of its hedging
    instruments for all years presented were fully effective as
    defined under SFAS No. 133.

54

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

All other contracts are designated as fair value hedges. These
    contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under
    U.S. GAAP, and therefore, the change in the
    instrument s fair value is recognized currently in earnings
    and is reported as a component of non-operating income. Changes
    in fair value on these contracts were not material to the
    consolidated financial statements for all years presented.

Use of
    Estimates  

Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating
    to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity
    with generally accepted accounting principles. These estimates
    and assumptions have been applied using methodologies, which are
    consistent throughout the periods presented. However, actual
    results could differ from these estimates.

New
    Accounting Standards  

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
    ( FIN ) No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty
    in Income Taxes, an interpretation of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income
    Taxes.  FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for
    income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a
    tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the
    financial statements. FIN No. 48 also provides
    guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest
    and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and
    transition. The interpretation applies to all tax positions
    related to income taxes subject to SFAS No. 109.
    FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning
    after December 15, 2006. Differences between the amounts
    recognized in the statements of financial position prior to the
    adoption of FIN No. 48 and the amounts reported after
    adoption should be accounted for as a cumulative-effect
    adjustment recorded to the beginning balance of retained
    earnings. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the
    adoption of FIN No. 48 could have on its consolidated
    financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157
    defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
    value in U.S. GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair
    value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
    financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal
    years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the
    adoption of SFAS No. 157 could have on its
    consolidated financial statements.

Reclassifications  

Advances to suppliers were greater than 5% of total current
    assets during 2006 and, as such, have been separately classified
    on the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2006.
    Prior period amounts on the consolidated balance sheet have been
    reclassified to conform to the current period presentation as
    follows (in millions):

Note 2.    

Adjustment
    to Previously Issued Financial Statements  

The Company has adjusted its consolidated financial statements
    for the years ended July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004, to
    record additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and
    related tax accruals, resulting from stock options granted
    during fiscal years 1998 to 2003 that were incorrectly accounted
    for under U.S. GAAP. The decision to adjust the financial
    statements was based on the facts obtained from an independent
    investigation into the Company s stock option accounting
    that was conducted under the direction of a special committee
    ( Special Committee ) of its Board of Directors
    ( Board ). The Board created the Special Committee,
    which was composed solely of independent directors, to conduct a
    voluntary, company-initiated review of matters related to past
    stock option grants, including the timing of such grants and
    associated documentation.

55

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Special Committee reviewed all option grants of the Company
    during the period from July 1, 1997 through June 30,
    2006 (the  Review Period ). The Special Committee
    reviewed corporate records and electronic documentation and
    interviewed current and former employees and directors. The
    Special Committee presented its investigative findings and
    recommendations to the Board and the Company s independent
    auditors, KPMG LLP.

At the completion of its investigation, the Special Committee
    identified, and the Company s management concurred, that
    the appropriate measurement date for 28 option grants made on 27
    separate grant dates during the period from fiscal 1998 through
    fiscal 2004 differed from the originally stated grant dates for
    such awards. Because the prices at the originally stated grant
    dates were, in 19 of such instances, lower than the prices on
    the appropriate measurement dates for such grants, management
    determined the Company should have recognized stock-based
    compensation expense and additional tax expense in its
    historical financial statements for these 19 grants. For the
    remaining 9 grants, since the prices at the originally stated
    grant dates were at or above the prices on the appropriate
    measurement dates for such grants, the Company determined that
    no accounting adjustment should be made for these grants.

For 19 grants made during the period from fiscal 1998 through
    fiscal 2003, the Company s stock price at the appropriate
    measurement date was higher than the price on the originally
    stated grant dates. As a result, stock-based compensation
    expense should have been recognized, as well as additional tax
    expense in historical financial statements for these 19 grants.
    Based on these findings, management has determined that the
    Company should have recognized approximately $21 million of
    stock based and tax-related expenses.

Approximately $13.2 million, before tax-related expenses,
    of these additional expenses were attributable to annual
    employee stock option grants made by the Compensation Committee
    in November 1998 and 1999 and a special employee grant made in
    March 2000 for which there was inadequate or no support for
    selection of the grant dates, and the grant dates were at a low
    price in the relevant period. These grants were made by
    unanimous written consent of the Compensation Committee of the
    Board.

Approximately $4.2 million, before tax-related expenses, of
    these additional expenses were attributable to annual employee
    stock option grants made in September 2001 and 2002. For these
    grants, acting at a meeting, the Compensation Committee approved
    specific grants for Section 16(b) Officers and an overall
    budgeted number of shares for grants to employees that were not
    Section 16(b) Officers to be allocated by later management
    action. The allocation of awards to employees that were not
    Section 16(b) Officers was not completed with finality by
    the grant date.

Approximately $1.0 million, before tax-related expenses,
    additional expenses were attributable to grants involving a
    variety of administrative errors, including errors in
    administration of grants to new hires and in connection with
    promotions, and errors in supporting documentation.

The Company determined that the cumulative pre-tax non-cash
    stock-based compensation expense resulting from revised
    measurement dates was approximately $18.4 million for
    fiscal years 1998 to 2006. This additional compensation expense
    relates to stock options covering approximately
    12.6 million shares. Additionally, the Company recorded
    $2.5 million in tax-related expenses resulting from the
    recharacterization of incentive stock options to non-qualified
    stock options for fiscal years 1998 to 2006. The following table
    summarizes the impact of the related adjustments (in millions):

56

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table reflects the consolidated income statement
    classification of the additional stock-based compensation and
    tax-related expenses related to the adjustment for fiscal years
    1998 to 2006:

Cost of revenues

$

2.0

Research and development expense

12.2

Selling, general and
    administrative expense

6.1

Provision for income taxes

0.6

Total

$

20.9

The adjustments reduce previously reported diluted earnings per
    share ( diluted EPS ) by $0.01 each for both of the
    years ended July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004. Because the
    Company concluded that the foregoing adjustments were not
    material to its historical financial statements, it has not
    amended, and does not intend to amend, any of its other
    previously filed annual reports on
     Form 10-K 
    or quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the periods affected by the adjustments.

The following tables set forth the effects of the adjustments on
    certain line items within the Company s consolidated
    statements of income and cash flows for the years ended
    July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004 and consolidated balance
    sheet as of July 1, 2005 (in millions, except per share
    amounts):

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS  

57

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

58

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

Note 3.    

Supplemental
    Financial Statement Data  

Accumulated depreciation on machinery and equipment recorded
    under capital leases was $10.4 million and
    $4.0 million as of June 30, 2006 and July 1,
    2005, respectively.

Note 4.    

Read-Rite
    Asset Acquisition  

In June 2003, Read-Rite Corporation ( Read-Rite ),
    then one of the Company s suppliers of magnetic recording
    heads, commenced voluntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy
    proceedings. On July 31, 2003, Western Digital purchased
    substantially all of the assets of Read-Rite, including its
    wafer fabrication equipment in Fremont, California and
    manufacturing facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand. The cost of the
    acquisition was $172.0 million and consisted of cash
    consideration of $94.8 million, assumed debt obligations of
    the Thailand operations of approximately $60.2 million and
    direct costs of the acquisition and other miscellaneous assumed
    obligations totaling $17.0 million. The Company

59

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

accounted for this transaction as an asset acquisition. The
    estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed were as follows (in millions):

As of the date of the acquisition, Read-Rite had two in-process
    research and development ( IPR ) projects:
    120 gigabyte per platter and 160 gigabyte per platter
    products. The fair value allocated to these projects as part of
    the acquisition was $17.8 million and $7.8 million,
    respectively. The multi-period excess earnings method, a
    discounted cash flow income approach, was used to determine the
    value allocated to the IPR&D. The rate utilized to discount
    the cash flows to their present values was based on the weighted
    average cost of capital and an additional risk premium based on
    an analysis of the technology and the IPR&D stages of
    completion. Based on these factors, 27% was used as the annual
    discount rate. These acquired IPR&D projects had not reached
    technological feasibility and had no alternative future use.
    Accordingly, the Company recorded the $25.6 million as a
    charge to research and development expense at the time of the
    acquisition.

Approximately $38.8 million of the purchase price related
    to purchased technology and is being amortized over a weighted
    average period of three years. Accumulated amortization related
    to these assets was $31.9 million, $27.6 million and
    $13.2 million at June 30, 2006, July 1, 2005 and
    July 2, 2004, respectively. During the fiscal years ended
    June 30, 2006, July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004, the
    Company recorded $4.3 million, $14.4 million and
    $13.2 million of amortization expense related to these
    intangible assets, respectively. Amortization expense is
    estimated to be $3.4 million and $3.4 million for
    fiscal years 2007 and 2008, respectively.

Note 5.    

Short-term
    Borrowings and Long-term Debt  

Short-term borrowings and long-term debt consisted of the
    following as of June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005
    (in millions):

Line of
    Credit  

The Company has a $125 million credit facility
    ( Senior Credit Facility ) consisting of a revolving
    credit line (subject to outstanding letters of credit and a
    borrowing base calculation) and a term loan. Both the revolving
    credit facility and the term loan mature on September 20,
    2009 and are secured by the Company s accounts receivable,
    inventory, 65% of its stock in its foreign subsidiaries and
    other assets. For the year ended June 30, 2006, the Company
    had no borrowings on the revolving credit line and the average
    variable rate on the Company s term loan was 6.5%. The term
    loan requires quarterly principal payments of approximately
    $3 million. Principal payments made on the term loan
    increase the amount of revolving credit available. At
    June 30, 2006, the Company had $97.5 million available
    for borrowing under the revolving credit line, $25 million
    outstanding on the term loan, and $2.5 million in
    outstanding letters of credit.

60

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Senior Credit Facility prohibits the payment of cash
    dividends on common stock and contains specific financial
    covenants. The Company is required to maintain an available
    liquidity level of $300 million at the end of each quarter.
    Available liquidity is defined as cash plus eligible trade
    receivables. Should the Company s available liquidity be
    less than $300 million, the Company would then be subject
    to minimum EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
    and amortization) requirements and capital expenditure
    limitations. As of June 30, 2006, the Company was in
    compliance with all covenants.

The terms of the Senior Credit Facility require that the Company
    deliver to the lenders audited financial statements within
    90 days of the end of each fiscal year. As a result of the
    independent investigation into the Company s stock option
    accounting that was conducted under the direction of the Special
    Committee, the Company was delayed in completing its fiscal year
    2006 audited financial statements, this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and its Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    as of and for the period ending September 29, 2006. At the
    Company s request, the lenders under the Senior Credit
    Facility agreed that the Company would not be in default under
    the Senior Credit Facility as a result of its failure to timely
    deliver its 2006 audited financial statements, or the management
    discussion and analysis for its Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    as of and for the period ending September 29, 2006,
    provided that the lenders receive the 2006 audited financial
    statements, the management discussion and analysis for its
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    as of and for the period ending September 29, 2006, and all
    other documents reasonably requested by the lenders before the
    earlier of: (a) 30 days following the filing of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    or (b) January 12, 2007. The Company intends to
    deliver its audited financial statements to the lenders on or
    around the date of filing this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Note 6.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Lease
    Commitments  

The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under
    long-term, non-cancelable operating and capital leases. The
    Company s operating leases consist of leased property and
    equipment that expire at various dates through 2012. Rental
    expense under these operating leases, including
     month-to-month 
    rentals, was $16.1 million, $16.2 million and
    $14.9 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
    Company s capital leases consist of leased equipment. These
    leases have maturity dates through December 1, 2008 and
    interest rates averaging approximately 5.2%. Future minimum
    lease payments under operating and capital leases that have
    initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one
    year at June 30, 2006 are as follows (in millions):

Product
    Warranty Liability  

The Company records an accrual for estimated warranty costs when
    revenue is recognized. Warranty covers costs of repair or
    replacement of the hard drive over the warranty period, which
    generally ranges from one to five years. This accrual is based
    on estimated future returns within the warranty period and costs
    to repair, using factory test data, historical field returns and
    current average repair costs by product type. Return rate and
    repair cost estimates are reviewed

61

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

quarterly and updated to reflect the impact of current results
    on prior expectations. If actual product return trends or costs
    to repair returned products demonstrate significant differences
    from expectations, a change in the warranty accrual is made.
    Changes in the warranty accrual for the years ended
    June 30, 2006, July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004 were
    as follows (in millions):

Accrued warranty also includes amounts classified in non-current
    liabilities of $17.8 million at June 30, 2006,
    $16.7 million at July 1, 2005, and $10.4 million
    at July 2, 2004.

Long-term
    Purchase Agreements  

The Company has entered into long-term purchase agreements with
    various component suppliers. The commitments depend on specific
    products ordered and may be subject to minimum quality
    requirements and future price negotiations. For 2007, 2008, and
    2009, WD expects these commitments to total approximately
    $885 million, $1.075 billion and $970 million,
    respectively. In conjunction with these agreements, the Company
    has advanced approximately $92 million related to 2007 and
    2008 purchase commitments, of which $80 million is included
    in advances to suppliers and $12 million is included in
    other long-term assets as of June 30, 2006.

Note 7.    

Legal
    Proceedings  

In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to
    legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. Although the
    ultimate aggregate amount of monetary liability or financial
    impact with respect to these matters is subject to many
    uncertainties and is therefore not predictable with assurance,
    management believes that any monetary liability or financial
    impact to the Company from these matters or the specified
    matters below, individually and in the aggregate, beyond that
    provided at June 30, 2006, would not be material to the
    Company s financial condition. However, there can be no
    assurance with respect to such result, and monetary liability or
    financial impact to the Company from these legal proceedings,
    lawsuits and other claims could differ materially from those
    projected.

In June 1994, Papst Licensing ( Papst ) brought suit
    against the Company alleging infringement by the Company of five
    hard drive motor patents owned by Papst. In December 1994, Papst
    dismissed its case without prejudice. In July 2002, Papst
    filed a new complaint against the Company and several other
    defendants alleging infringement by the Company of seventeen of
    Papst s patents related to hard drive motors that the
    Company purchased from motor vendors. Papst sought an injunction
    and damages. The Company filed an answer on September 4,
    2002, denying Papst s complaint, and the lawsuit was
    subsequently stayed pending the outcome of certain other related
    litigation. On July 4, 2005, the Company entered into a
    Settlement and License Agreement with Papst. In connection with
    the settlement, the Company made a one-time payment of
    $24 million to Papst on July 29, 2005, of which
    $19 million represented a charge to selling, general and
    administrative expense for the Company s 2005 fiscal fourth
    quarter ($5 million had been accrued in a prior year). In
    exchange for the payment, Papst has dismissed with prejudice its
    lawsuit pending against the Company, granted the Company a
    fully-paid license to certain patents owned by Papst, and
    released the Company of all past, present and future claims
    alleging infringement by the Company of those Papst patents. The
    Settlement and License Agreement resolved all outstanding
    litigation between the two companies without any admission of
    infringement by the Company.

62

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Since the Company s announcement on July 27, 2006 that
    it was conducting a company-initiated, voluntary review of its
    historical stock option grants, several purported derivative
    actions were filed nominally on behalf of the Company against
    certain current and former directors and officers of the Company
    in the United States District Court for the Central District of
    California and the Superior Court of the State of California for
    the County of Orange. These complaints assert claims for
    violations of Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act, accounting, breach of fiduciary duty and/or aiding
    and abetting, constructive fraud, waste of corporate assets,
    unjust enrichment, rescission, breach of contract, violation of
    the California Corporations Code, abuse of control, gross
    mismanagement, and constructive trust in connection with the
    Company s option granting practices. The complaints seek
    unspecified monetary damages and other relief against the
    individual defendants and certain governance reforms affecting
    the Company. The Company is named solely as a nominal defendant
    in each action. The Company has joined or intends to join the
    other defendants in filing motions to dismiss each action.

Note 8.    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Stock
    Incentive Plans  

The Company has four stock-based incentive plans (collectively
    referred to as the  Stock Plans ): The 2004 amended
    and restated Performance Incentive Plan, the Employee Stock
    Option Plan, the Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock
    Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Subsequent to the
    expiration of the Employee Stock Option Plan on
    November 10, 2004 and approval of the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan by the Company s shareholders on
    November 18, 2004, no new awards are permitted under the
    Employee Stock Option Plan, the Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan
    or the Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors
    (collectively referred to as the  Prior Stock Plans ).
    As of June 30, 2006, options to purchase 9.8 million
    shares of the Company s common stock remain outstanding
    under the Prior Stock Plans, of which 7.2 million shares
    were exercisable and 0.2 million shares of restricted stock
    remain unvested. Options granted under the Prior Stock Plans
    vested over periods from one to four years. Options granted
    under the Prior Stock Plans expire either five or ten years from
    the date of grant.

In November 2004, the Company s shareholders approved the
    2004 Performance Incentive Plan. Subsequently, in November 2005,
    the Company s shareholders approved an authorization for an
    additional 13 million shares. The types of awards that may
    be granted under the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan include
    stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
    stock bonuses and other forms of awards granted or denominated
    in the Company s common stock or units of the
    Company s common stock, as well as certain cash bonus
    awards. Persons eligible to receive awards under the 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan include officers or employees of the
    Company or any of its subsidiaries, directors of the Company and
    certain consultants and advisors to the Company or any of its
    subsidiaries. The vesting of awards under the Performance
    Incentive Plan is determined at the date of grant. Each award
    expires on a date determined at the date of grant; however, the
    maximum term of options, stock appreciation rights and other
    rights to acquire common stock under the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan is ten years after the grant date of the award.

As of June 30, 2006, the maximum number of shares of the
    Company s common stock that are authorized for award grants
    under the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan is 21.7 million
    shares. Any shares subject to awards under the prior stock plans
    that are cancelled, forfeited, or otherwise terminate without
    having vested or been exercised, as applicable, will become
    available for other award grants under the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan. The 2004 Performance Incentive Plan will
    terminate on September 21, 2014 unless terminated earlier
    by the Company s Board of Directors.

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan  

During the second quarter of 2006, the Company adopted the
    Western Digital Corporation 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
    ( ESPP ) whereby eligible employees may authorize
    payroll deductions of up to 10% of their eligible compensation
    to purchase shares of the Company s common stock at 95% of
    the fair market value of common stock on either the date of
    grant or on the exercise date, whichever is less. The date of
    grant of each offering period is June 1st or
    December 1st, except for the initial offering period, which
    began on December 15, 2005. Each offering period is
    24 months and consists of four exercise dates. If the fair
    market value of the common stock is less on a given exercise
    date

63

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

than on the date of grant, employee participation in that
    offering period is terminated and re-enrollment in the new
    offering period occurs automatically. The Company s ESPP
    operates in accordance with Section 423 of the Internal
    Revenue Code. The 1993 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which was
    previously suspended by the Board of Directors, terminated upon
    stockholder approval of the 2005 ESPP.

Stock-Based
    Compensation Expense  

Effective July 2, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payment 
     ( SFAS No. 123-R ) 
    using the modified prospective method.
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    establishes the financial accounting and reporting standards for
    stock-based compensation plans. As required by
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    the Company recognized the cost resulting from all share-based
    payment transactions including shares issued under the
    Company s stock option plans and employee stock purchase
    plans in the financial statements. During the fiscal year ended
    June 30, 2006, the Company expensed $21.1 million
    related to stock-based compensation from stock options and ESPP
    shares as a result of the adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R. 
    At June 30, 2006, total compensation cost related to
    unvested stock options granted to employees and ESPP shares, but
    not yet recognized, was $31.1 million and will be amortized
    on a straight-line basis over a weighted average period of
    approximately 1.9 years.

Pro forma
    Information for Periods Prior to the Adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R   

Prior to July 2, 2005, the Company accounted for
    stock-based employee compensation plans (including shares issued
    under the Company s stock option plans and ESPP) in
    accordance with APB No. 25 and followed the pro forma net
    income, pro forma income per share, and stock-based compensation
    plan disclosure requirements set forth in the Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,  Accounting
    for Stock-Based Compensation 
    ( SFAS No. 123 ). The following table sets
    forth the computation of basic and diluted income per share for
    the years ended July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004, and
    illustrates the effect on net income and income per share as if
    the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of
    SFAS No. 123 to stock-based employee compensation (in
    millions, except per share data):

The pro forma income per share information for all stock options
    granted on or prior to December 31, 2004, as well as all
    ESPP shares granted on or prior to July 1, 2005, is
    estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model.
    The Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model was developed for
    use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no
    vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. For stock
    options granted subsequent to December 31,

64

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

2004, the pro forma income per share information is estimated
    using a binomial model. Both the Black-Scholes-Merton and the
    binomial option pricing models require the input of highly
    subjective assumptions such as the expected stock price
    volatility and expected employee exercise behavior. The
    resulting fair value of employee stock options is amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the service period of the options.

Stock
    Options  

The following table summarizes activity under the Stock Plans
    (in millions, except per share amounts):

The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference
    between the exercise price of the underlying awards and the
    quoted price of the Company s common stock for those awards
    that have an exercise price currently below the quoted price. As
    of June 30, 2006, the Company had options outstanding to
    purchase an aggregate of 11.3 million shares with an
    exercise price below the quoted price of the Company s
    stock resulting in an aggregate intrinsic value of
    $123.6 million. During the years ended June 30, 2006
    and July 1, 2005, the aggregate intrinsic value of options
    exercised under the Company s stock option plans was
    $84.1 million and $62.2 million, respectively,
    determined as of the date of exercise.

65

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following tables summarize information about options
    outstanding and exercisable under the Stock Plans at
    June 30, 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts):

*  

Represents the weighted average remaining contractual lives of
    the options outstanding. 

Deferred
    Stock Compensation  

The Company granted approximately 2.0 million,
    1.6 million and 0.1 million shares of restricted stock
    during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Of the restricted
    stock granted in fiscal 2006, 1.7 million represents
    outstanding restricted stock units and 0.3 million
    represents restricted stock awards (which are not deemed to be
    outstanding until vesting occurs). The restricted stock vests
    annually over periods from two to four years. The aggregate
    market value of the restricted stock at the date of issuance was
    $26.5 million, $17.1 million and $1.3 million in
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These amounts have been
    recorded as deferred compensation, a separate component of
    shareholders  equity, and are being amortized to operating
    expense over the corresponding vesting periods. For purposes of
    valuing these awards, the Company has assumed a forfeiture rate
    of zero based on an historical analysis indicating minimal
    forfeitures for these types of awards. For the year ended
    June 30, 2006, the Company charged to expense
    $15.9 million related to restricted stock awards that were
    vested during the period. Of this amount, $7.2 million
    represented the incremental cost from the modification of
    pre-existing awards. As of June 30, 2006, the aggregate
    unamortized fair value of all unvested restricted stock awards
    was $26.4 million, which will be amortized on a
    straight-line basis over a weighted average vesting period of
    approximately 1.5 years.

During 2005, the Company also awarded certain executives and
    other key employees 0.5 million restricted stock units with
    performance-based vesting ( Performance Shares ).
    However, during 2006, the Company cancelled all outstanding
    Performance Shares. The impact of these awards, and subsequent
    cancellation, were not material to the consolidated financial
    statements.

66

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Stock
    Reserved for Issuance  

The following table summarizes all shares of common stock
    reserved for issuance at June 30, 2006 (in millions):

Number 

of Shares 

Maximum shares issuable in
    connection with:

Outstanding awards and shares
    available for award grants

26.7

ESPP

4.4

31.1

Fair
    Value Disclosure   Binomial Model  

The fair value of stock options granted for the year ended
    June 30, 2006, was estimated using a binomial option
    pricing model. For all options granted between January 1,
    2005 and June 30, 2006, the pro forma income per share
    information was estimated using a binomial model. The binomial
    model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions
    including the expected stock price volatility, the expected
    price multiple at which employees are likely to exercise stock
    options and the expected employee forfeiture rate. The Company
    uses historical data to estimate option exercise, employee
    termination, and expected stock price volatility within the
    binomial model. The risk-free rate for periods within the
    contractual life of the option is based on the
    U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The fair value of stock options granted during the year ended
    June 30, 2006 was estimated using the following weighted
    average assumptions:

The fair value of stock options granted during the six months
    ended July 1, 2005 was estimated using the following
    weighted average assumptions:

Fair
    Value Disclosure   Black-Scholes-Merton
    Model  

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per
    share is required by SFAS No. 123. This information is
    required to be determined as if the Company had accounted for
    its stock options (including shares issued under the Stock
    Incentive Plans and the ESPP, collectively called
     Options ) granted subsequent to July 1, 1995,
    under the fair value method of that statement.

67

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The pro forma income per share information for all stock options
    granted on or prior to December 31, 2004 as well as all
    ESPP shares granted on or prior to June 30, 2006 was
    estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model.
    The Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model was developed for
    use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no
    vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. The
    Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model requires the input of
    highly subjective assumptions such as the expected stock price
    volatility and the expected period until options are exercised.
    The pro forma impact of applying SFAS No. 123 at
    June 30, 2006 is not necessarily representative of future
    periods.

The fair values of all stock options granted on or prior to
    December 31, 2004 and all ESPP shares granted on or prior
    to June 30, 2006 have been estimated at the date of grant
    using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model with the
    following weighted average assumptions:

Stock
    Repurchase Program  

The Company s Board of Directors has authorized the
    repurchase of up to $250 million of the Company s
    common stock in open market transactions. Stock repurchases are
    expected to be funded principally from operating cash flows.
    During 2006, the Company repurchased 3.5 million shares of
    common stock at a total cost of $53.5 million (including
    commissions). Between July 1, 2006 and November 10,
    2006 the Company has not repurchased any additional common
    stock. Since the inception of the program, and through
    November 10, 2006, the Company has repurchased
    10.2 million shares for a total cost of $115 million
    (including commissions). The Company may continue to repurchase
    its stock as it deems appropriate and market conditions allow.

Stock
    Purchase Rights  

In 1989, the Company implemented a plan to protect
    shareholders  rights in the event of a proposed takeover of
    the Company. Under the plan, each share of the Company s
    outstanding common stock carried one Right to Purchase
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the
     Right ). The Right enabled the holder, under certain
    circumstances, to purchase common stock of Western Digital or of
    an acquiring company at a substantially discounted price ten
    days after a person or group publicly announces it has acquired
    or has tendered an offer for 15% or more of the Company s
    outstanding common stock. On September 10, 1998, the
    Company s Board of Directors approved the adoption of a new
    Rights plan to replace the previous plan, which expired in
    September 1998. The Rights under the 1998 plan were similar to
    the rights under the 1989 plan except they were redeemable by
    the Company at $.01 per Right and expired in 2008. In
    connection with the establishment of a holding company structure
    on April 6, 2001, the Company terminated the Rights under
    the 1998 plan and adopted a new Rights plan. The 2001 plan is
    similar to the terminated 1998 plan, except that the exercise
    price was reduced from $150.00 to $50.00 per share and the
    expiration date for the 2001 Rights plan was extended to April
    2011.

Effective July 1, 1991, the Company adopted the Western
    Digital Corporation 401(k) Plan (the  Plan ) formerly
    known as the Western Digital Corporation Retirement Savings and
    Profit Sharing Plan. The Plan covers substantially all domestic
    employees, subject to certain eligibility requirements. The
    Company may make annual contributions to the

68

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Plan at the discretion of the Board of Directors. For 2006, 2005
    and 2004 the Company made contributions to the Plan of
    $3.6 million, $3.0 million and $2.9 million,
    respectively.

Note 10.    

Business
    Segment, International Operations and Major Customers  

Segment
    Information  

As of June 30, 2006, the Company operated in one segment,
    the hard drive business.

International
    Operations  

The Company s operations outside the United States include
    manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and Thailand as well as
    sales offices throughout Canada, Europe, Asia, Japan, India and
    the Middle East. The following table summarizes the
    Company s operations by geographic areas for the three
    years ended June 30, 2006 (in millions):

(1)  

Revenue is attributed to geographic regions based on location of
    customer. 

Major
    Customer  

During 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales to Dell accounted for 12%, 16%
    and 14% of the Company s revenue, respectively.

Pre-tax
    Income  

The domestic and foreign components of income (loss) before
    income taxes were as follows for the three years ended
    June 30, 2006 (in millions):

69

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Income
    Tax (Benefit) Provision  

The components of the (benefit) provision for income taxes were
    as follows for the three years ended June 30, 2006 (in
    millions):

Remaining net undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries
    at June 30, 2006 on which no U.S. tax has been
    provided amounted to approximately $834.7 million. The net
    undistributed earnings are intended to finance local operating
    requirements. Accordingly, an additional U.S. tax provision
    has not been made on these earnings.

Deferred
    Taxes  

Temporary differences and carryforwards, which give rise to a
    significant portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
    June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005 were as follows (in
    millions):

Reserves and accrued expenses not currently deductible consisted
    of the following as June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005 (in
    millions):

70

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A substantial portion of the fully valued net operating losses
    ( NOL ) noted above may be reduced as a result of tax
    uncertainties. In addition to the deferred tax assets presented
    above, the Company had additional NOL benefits related to stock
    option deductions of approximately $93.8 million and
    $67.5 million at June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005,
    respectively. In accordance with the provisions of
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    this will be recorded as a credit to shareholders  equity
    when an incremental benefit is recognized after considering all
    other tax attributes available to the Company. Accordingly,
    these amounts are excluded from the table above. The 2005
    deferred tax assets presented above have been reclassified to
    reflect the 2006 presentation.

The Company determines deferred taxes for each of its tax-paying
    subsidiaries within each tax jurisdiction. The Company s
    deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOL and tax
    credit carryforwards, have previously been fully reserved in the
    form of a valuation allowance. At the end of fiscal 2006, the
    Company determined that it is more likely than not that a
    portion of these assets will be realized. Accordingly, the
    Company reduced a portion of the valuation allowance which
    resulted in the recognition of a net deferred tax asset of
    $22.3 million. The valuation of the deferred tax assets is
    based on an assumption of the Company s ability to generate
    sufficient earnings in certain jurisdictions in fiscal years
    2007 and 2008. This two-year period is used due to the
    difficulty in accurately projecting income for longer periods of
    time given the cyclical nature of hard drive industry. This
    assumption may change in the future based on fluctuating
    industry or company conditions. The amount of deferred tax
    assets may increase or decrease in subsequent quarters as the
    Company updates its estimates of future taxable income or
    re-evaluates the two-year assumption.

Effective
    Tax Rate  

Reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory rate to the
    Company s effective tax rate is as follows for the three
    years ended June 30, 2006:

Tax
    Holidays and Carryforwards  

A substantial portion of the Company s manufacturing
    operations in Malaysia and Thailand operate under various tax
    holidays and tax incentive programs which will expire in whole
    or in part at various dates through 2019. Certain of the
    holidays may be extended if specific conditions are met. The net
    impact of these tax holidays and tax incentives was to increase
    the Company s net earnings by $81.1 million
    ($.36 per diluted share), $66.7 million ($.31 per
    diluted share) and $54.9 million ($.25 per diluted
    share) in 2006, 2005, and 2004 respectively.

As of June 30, 2006, the Company had federal and state NOL
    carryforwards of approximately $380.9 million and
    $338.6 million, respectively. In addition, the Company had
    various federal and state tax credit carryforwards combined of
    approximately $60.8 million. The loss carryforwards
    available to offset future federal and state taxable income
    expire at various times from 2019 to 2021 and 2007 to 2025,
    respectively. Approximately $20.6 million of the credit
    carryforwards available to offset future taxable income expire
    at various times from 2007 to 2025. The remaining amount is
    available indefinitely.

71

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 12.    

Quarterly
    Results of Operations (unaudited)  

The Company has adjusted its consolidated financial statements
    for fiscal 2006 and 2005 to record additional non-cash
    stock-based compensation expense and related tax accruals
    resulting from stock options granted during fiscal years 1998 to
    2003 that were incorrectly accounted for under U.S. GAAP
    (see Note 2). The following table summarizes the quarterly
    impact of these adjustments on results of operations (in
    millions, except per share amounts):

72

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

(1)  

The fourth quarter of 2006 included a $13.1 million benefit
    to gross margin related to the resolution of certain items that
    impacted amounts previously recorded as costs primarily in
    earlier quarters of 2006, and a $22.3 million benefit to
    income taxes from the change in valuation allowance for deferred
    income taxes. 

(2)  

The fourth quarter of 2005 included a $19.0 million charge
    for settlement of litigation, which was recorded in selling,
    general and administrative expense. 

73

Table of Contents   

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION  

SCHEDULE II  
    CONSOLIDATED VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

Three
    years ended June 30, 2006  

(in
    millions)  

74

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Adjustment
    to Previously Issued Financial Statements   

We have adjusted our consolidated financial statements for the
    years ended July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004, as well as
    the selected financial data for the years ended June 27,
    2003 and June 28, 2002, to record additional non-cash
    stock-based compensation expense, and related tax accruals,
    resulting from stock options granted during fiscal years 1998 to
    2003 that were incorrectly accounted for under
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    ( GAAP ). Our decision to adjust our financial
    statements was based on the facts obtained from an independent
    investigation into our stock option accounting that was
    conducted under the direction of a special committee
    ( Special Committee ) of our Board of Directors. The
    Board created the Special Committee, which was composed solely
    of independent directors, to conduct a voluntary,
    company-initiated review of matters related to past stock option
    grants, including the timing of such grants and associated
    documentation. The Special Committee reviewed all option grants
    of the Company during the period from July 1, 1997 through
    June 30, 2006 (the  Review Period ). The Special
    Committee reviewed corporate records and electronic
    documentation and interviewed current and former employees and
    directors. The Special Committee presented its investigative
    findings and recommendations to the Board of Directors and our
    independent auditors, KPMG LLP.

At the completion of its investigation, the Special Committee
    identified, and our management concurred, that the appropriate
    measurement date for 28 option grants made on 27 separate grant
    dates during the period from fiscal 1998 through fiscal 2004
    differed from the originally stated grant dates for such awards.
    Because the prices at the originally stated grant dates were, in
    19 of such instances, lower than the prices on the appropriate
    measurement dates for such grants, our management determined we
    should have recognized stock-based compensation expense and
    additional tax expense in our historical financial statements
    for these 19 grants. For the remaining 9 grants, since the
    prices at the originally stated grant dates were at or above the
    prices on the appropriate measurement dates for such grants, we
    determined that no accounting adjustment should be made for
    these grants.

At the conclusion of its investigation, the Special Committee
    made recommendations to our Board for process improvements, all
    of which were adopted and are in the process of being
    implemented by our management. Our management concluded that the
    nature of these process improvements did not indicate any
    control deficiencies that would constitute a material weakness
    or change our conclusion below that our internal controls were
    designed and operating effectively as of June 30, 2006. For
    further discussion regarding the adjustment to previously issued
    financial statements, see Part II, Item 8  
    Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

As required by SEC
     Rule 13a-15(b) 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
     Exchange Act ), we carried out an evaluation, under
    the supervision and with the participation of our management,
    including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
    disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
    covered by this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)  of
    the Exchange Act). In designing and evaluating the disclosure
    controls and procedures, our management recognizes that any
    controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and
    operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the
    desired control objectives, and our management is required to
    apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship
    of possible controls and procedures.

Based on the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period
    covered by this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    our disclosure controls and procedures were effective such that
    information pertaining to Western Digital, including our
    consolidated subsidiaries, required to be disclosed in our
    reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
    SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is
    accumulated and communicated to our management, including

75

Table of Contents   

our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as
    appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required
    disclosures.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined
    in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)  of
    the Exchange Act) to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over
    financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
    (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in
    reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
    and dispositions of our assets; (ii) provide reasonable
    assurance that the transactions are recorded as necessary to
    permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts
    and expenditures are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of our management and our directors; and
    (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial
    statements.

Our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting using the criteria set forth by
    the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework.  Based on this evaluation, our management
    concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm that
    audited the consolidated financial statements included in this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    has issued an attestation report on our assessment of our
    internal control over financial reporting. See page 46
    herein.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

There has been no change in our internal control over financial
    reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter ended June 30,
    2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Inherent
    Limitations of Effectiveness of Controls   

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and its
    Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure
    controls and procedures or our internal controls over financial
    reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control
    system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide
    only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of
    the control system are met. Further, the benefits of controls
    must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the
    inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of
    controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues
    and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These
    inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in
    decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur
    because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can
    be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by
    collusion of two or more people, or by management override of
    the control. The design of any system of controls is also based
    in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future
    events, and there can be no assurance that any design will
    succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
    conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a
    cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or
    fraud may occur and not be detected.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

76

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Please refer to Part I of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    under  Item 1. Business   Executive Officers
    of the Registrant,  for information concerning our
    executive officers.

Set forth below are the current directors  names, age, year
    in which each was first elected as a member of our Board of
    Directors, and biographical information:

Matthew E. Massengill , 45, has been a member of our Board
    of Directors since January 2000. He joined us in 1985 and has
    served in various executive capacities. From October 1999 until
    January 2000, he served as Chief Operating Officer, from January
    2000 until January 2002, he served as President, and from
    January 2000 until October 2005, he served as Chief Executive
    Officer. Mr. Massengill has served as Chairman of the Board
    of Directors since November 2001. He is also a director of
    ViewSonic Corporation.

Peter D. Behrendt , 67, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since 1994. He was Chairman of Exabyte Corporation, a
    manufacturer of computer tape storage products, from January
    1992 until he retired in January 1998 and was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Exabyte Corporation from July 1990 to
    January 1997. Mr. Behrendt is currently a venture partner
    with NEA, a California-based venture fund. He is also a director
    of Infocus Corporation.

Kathleen A. Cote , 57, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since January 2001. Ms. Cote was the Chief
    Executive Officer of Worldport Communications, Inc., a European
    provider of Internet managed services, from May 2001 to June
    2003. From September 1998 until May 2001, she served as
    President of Seagrass Partners, a provider of expertise in
    business planning and strategic development for early stage
    companies. From November 1996 until January 1998, she served as
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Computervision
    Corporation, an international supplier of product development
    and data management software. She is also a director of Forgent
    Networks, Inc.

John F. Coyne , 56, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since October 2006. Mr. Coyne joined us in 1983
    and has served in various executive capacities. From November
    2002 until June 2005, Mr. Coyne served as Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations, from June 2005 until September
    2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide
    Operations and from November 2005 until June 2006, he served as
    Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer. Effective
    June 2006, he was named President, Chief Operating Officer.

Henry T. DeNero , 60, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since June 2000. He was Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of Homespace, Inc., a provider of Internet real estate
    and home services, from January 1999 until it was acquired by
    LendingTree, Inc. in August 2000. From July 1995 to January
    1999, he was Executive Vice President and Group Executive,
    Commercial Payments for First Data Corporation, a provider of
    information and transaction processing services. Prior to 1995,
    he was Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Dayton
    Hudson Corporation, a general merchandise retailer, and was
    previously a Director of McKinsey & Company, a
    management-consulting firm. He is also a director of Banta
    Corporation, Digital Insight Corporation, PortalPlayer, Inc.,
    THQ, Inc. and Vignette Corp.

William L. Kimsey , 64, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since March 2003. He is a veteran of
    32 years  service with Ernst & Young, a
    global independent auditing firm, and became that firm s
    Global Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kimsey served at
    Ernst & Young as director of management consulting in
    St. Louis, office managing partner in Kansas City, Vice
    Chairman and Southwest Region managing partner in Dallas, Vice
    Chairman and West Region managing partner in Los Angeles, Deputy
    Chairman and Chief Operating Officer and, from 1998 to 2002,
    Chief Executive Officer and a global board member. He is also a
    director of Accenture Ltd., NAVTEQ Corporation and Royal
    Caribbean Cruises Ltd.

Michael D. Lambert , 59, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since August 2002. From 1996 until he retired in May
    2002, Mr. Lambert served as Senior Vice President for Dell
    Inc. s Enterprise Systems Group. During that period, he
    also participated as a member of a six-man operating committee
    at Dell, which reported to the Office of the Chairman.
    Mr. Lambert served as Vice President, Sales and Marketing
    for Compaq Computer Corporation from 1993 to 1996. Prior to
    that, for four years, he ran the Large Computer Products
    division at NCR/AT&T

77

Table of Contents   

Corporation as Vice President and General Manager.
    Mr. Lambert began his career with NCR Corporation, where he
    served for 16 years in product management, sales and
    software engineering capacities. He is also a director of
    Vignette Corp.

Roger H. Moore , 64, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since June 2000. Mr. Moore served as President
    and Chief Executive Officer of Illuminet Holdings, Inc., a
    provider of network, database and billing services to the
    communications industry, from January 1996 until it was acquired
    by Verisign, Inc. in December 2001 and he retired at that time.
    He was a member of Illuminet s Board of Directors from July
    1998 until December 2001. From September 1998 to October 1998,
    he served as President, Chief Executive Officer and as a
    director of VINA Technologies, Inc., a telecommunications
    equipment company. From November 1994 to December 1995, he
    served as Vice President of major accounts of Northern Telecom.
    He is also a director of Arbinet-thexchange, Inc., Consolidated
    Communications Holdings, Inc., Tut Systems, Inc., and Verisign,
    Inc.

Thomas E. Pardun , 63, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since 1993. Mr. Pardun served as Chairman of our
    Board of Directors from January 2000 until November 2001 and as
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Edge2net,
    Inc., a provider of voice, data and video services, from
    November 2000 until September 2001. Mr. Pardun was
    President of MediaOne International Asia Pacific (previously
    U.S. West International, Asia-Pacific, a subsidiary of
    U.S. West, Inc.), an owner/operator of international
    properties in cable television, telephone services, and wireless
    communications companies, from May 1996 until his retirement in
    July 2000. Before joining U.S. West, Mr. Pardun was
    President of the Central Group for Sprint, as well as President
    of Sprint s West Division and Senior Vice President of
    Business Development for United Telecom, a predecessor company
    to Sprint. Mr. Pardun also held a variety of management
    positions during a
     19-year 
    tenure with IBM, concluding as Director of product-line
    evaluation. He is also a director of CalAmp Corporation, Exabyte
    Corporation and Occam Networks, Inc.

Arif Shakeel , 51, has been a member of our Board of
    Directors since September 2004. Mr. Shakeel joined us in
    1985 and has served in various executive capacities. From
    February 2000 until April 2001, he served as Executive Vice
    President and General Manager of Hard Disk Drive Solutions, from
    April 2001 until January 2003, he served as Executive Vice
    President and Chief Operating Officer, and from January 2002
    until June 2006, he served as President. He was named Chief
    Executive Officer in October 2005.

Director
    Independence  

Our Board of Directors has reviewed and discussed information
    provided by the directors and our company with regard to each
    director s business and personal activities as they may
    relate to Western Digital or its management. Based on its review
    of this information and all other relevant facts and
    circumstances, our Board of Directors has affirmatively
    determined that, except for serving as a member of our Board of
    Directors, none of Messrs. Behrendt, DeNero, Kimsey,
    Lambert, Moore and Pardun or Ms. Cote has any relationship,
    material or immaterial, with Western Digital either directly or
    as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has
    a relationship with Western Digital, and that each of such
    directors qualifies as  independent  as defined by the
    listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange.
    Messrs. Massengill, Shakeel and Coyne are each full-time,
    executive-level employees of Western Digital; therefore,
    Messrs. Massengill, Shakeel and Coyne are not
     independent  as defined by the corporate governance
    listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange.

Committees  

Our Board of Directors has standing Executive, Audit,
    Compensation and Governance Committees. The Governance
    Committee, among other things, performs functions similar to a
    nominating committee. Our Board of Directors

78

Table of Contents   

usually determines the membership of these committees at its
    organizational meeting held immediately after the annual meeting
    of stockholders. The following table identifies the current
    members of the committees:

Director 

Executive 

Audit 

Compensation 

Governance(1) 

Matthew E. Massengill

Chair

Peter D. Behrendt

Kathleen A. Cote

John F. Coyne

Henry T. DeNero

Chair

William L. Kimsey

Michael D. Lambert

Chair

Roger H. Moore

Thomas E. Pardun

Chair(1

)

Arif Shakeel

(1)  

The Chairman of the Governance Committee also serves as our lead
    outside director and presides at all executive sessions of
    non-management directors. 

Audit Committee.   Our Board of Directors has
    determined that all members of the Audit Committee are
    independent as defined under the listing standards of the New
    York Stock Exchange and applicable rules of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission and that Mr. DeNero is an  audit
    committee financial expert  as defined by rules of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. The Board of Directors has
    also determined that Mr. Kimsey s simultaneous service
    on three other public company audit committees will not impair
    his ability to effectively serve on our Audit Committee.

The Audit Committee operates pursuant to a written charter that
    is available on our website under the Governance section at
     www.westerndigital.com  and is also available in print to
    any stockholder who delivers a written request to our Secretary
    at our principal executive offices. As described in further
    detail in the written charter of the Audit Committee, the key
    responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: (1) sole
    responsibility for the appointment, compensation, retention and
    oversight of our independent accountants and, where appropriate,
    the termination or replacement of the independent accountants;
    (2) an annual evaluation of the independent
    accountants  qualifications, performance and independence,
    including a review and evaluation of the lead partner;
    (3) pre-approval of all auditing services and permissible
    non-auditing services to be performed by the independent
    accountants; (4) receipt and review of the reports from the
    independent accountants required annually and prior to the
    filing of any audit report by the independent accountants;
    (5) review and discussion with the independent accountants
    of any difficulties they encounter in the course of their audit
    work; (6) establishment of policies for the hiring of any
    current or former employee of the independent accountants;
    (7) review and discussion with management and the
    independent accountants of our annual and quarterly financial
    statements prior to their filing or public distribution;
    (8) general review and discussion with management of the
    presentation and information to be disclosed in our earnings
    press releases; (9) periodic review of the adequacy of our
    accounting and financial personnel resources; (10) periodic
    review and discussion of our internal control over financial
    reporting and review and discussion with our principal internal
    auditor of the scope and results of our internal audit program;
    (11) review and discussion of our policies with respect to
    risk assessment and risk management; (12) preparation of
    the audit committee report included in our proxy statement;
    (13) establishment of procedures for the receipt, retention
    and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal
    accounting controls or auditing matters, and the confidential,
    anonymous submission of such complaints by company employees;
    (14) review of material pending legal proceedings involving
    us and other material contingent liabilities; and
    (15) review of any other matters relative to the audit of
    our accounts and preparation of our financial statements that
    the Audit Committee deems appropriate.

Section 16(a)
    Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.  

Under the securities laws of the United States, our directors
    and officers and persons who beneficially own more than 10% of
    our common stock must report their initial ownership of our
    equity securities and any subsequent changes in that ownership
    to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock
    Exchange. The Securities and Exchange

79

Table of Contents   

Commission has established specific due dates for these reports,
    and we must disclose this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    any late filings during fiscal 2006. To our knowledge, based
    solely on our review of the copies of such reports required to
    be furnished to us with respect to fiscal 2006 and the written
    responses to annual directors  and officers 
    questionnaires that no other reports were required, all of these
    reports were timely filed.

Corporate
    Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Ethics.  

Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance
    Guidelines, which provide the framework for the governance of
    Western Digital and represent the Board s current views
    with respect to selected corporate governance issues considered
    to be of significance to stockholders. Our Board of Directors
    has also adopted a Code of Business Ethics that applies to all
    of our directors, employees and officers, including our Chief
    Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting
    Officer and Controller. The current versions of the Corporate
    Governance Guidelines and the Code of Business Ethics are
    available on our website under the Governance section at
     www.westerndigital.com  and are available in print to any
    stockholder who delivers a written request to our Secretary at
    our principal executive offices. In accordance with rules
    adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New
    York Stock Exchange, we intend to disclose future amendments to
    certain provisions of the Code of Business Ethics, or waivers of
    such provisions granted to executive officers and directors, on
    our website under the Governance section at
     www.westerndigital.com.   

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Summary
    Compensation Table.  

The following table sets forth the compensation paid for fiscal
    2006 to all individuals serving as Chief Executive Officer
    during fiscal 2006 and to our four other most highly compensated
    executive officers who were serving as executive officers at the
    end of fiscal 2006 (collectively, the  Named Executive
    Officers ).

*  

The amount of perquisites and other personal benefits received
    by each of the Named Executive Officers for the years indicated
    did not exceed the lesser of $50,000 or 10% of the
    individual s total annual salary and bonus, which
    represents the threshold reporting requirement. 

**  

We have not historically granted Stock Appreciation Rights. 

(1)  

Unless otherwise indicated, the amounts disclosed in the Bonus
    column for 2006 and 2005 were all awarded under our Incentive
    Compensation Plan. 

(2)  

At the end of fiscal 2006, the aggregate share amount and dollar
    value of (i) all unvested restricted stock awards granted
    to the Named Executive Officers (which consisted of the unvested
    portion of restricted stock awards granted to the Named
    Executive Officers in fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006), and
    (ii) all unvested restricted stock unit awards  

80

Table of Contents   

granted to the Named Executive Officers (which consisted of the
    unvested portion of restricted stock unit awards granted to the
    Named Executive Officers in fiscal 2006), were as follows (based
    on the $19.81 closing price of our common stock on June 30,
    2006): 

*  

Each restricted stock unit is a non-voting unit of measurement
    that is deemed for bookkeeping purposes to be equivalent to one
    outstanding share of our common stock. 

**  

For Mr. Shakeel, these awards include 90,800 shares of
    restricted stock that were scheduled to vest on January 1,
    2008. This amount was cancelled on October 31, 2006
    pursuant to an amendment to our employment agreement with
    Mr. Shakeel. 

(3)  

Mr. Massengill resigned as Chief Executive Officer
    effective October 1, 2005. He remains an executive officer
    in his capacity as Chairman of our Board of Directors. 

(4)  

The amounts reported in this column for fiscal 2006 consist of:
    (i) our matching contributions to the Western Digital
    Corporation 401(k) Plan on behalf of Mr. Massengill
    ($2,000), Mr. Shakeel ($2,000), Mr. Coyne ($2,000),
    Mr. Bukaty ($2,000), Dr. Moghadam ($2,000) and
    Mr. Milligan ($2,000); (ii) the dollar value of life
    insurance premiums paid by, or on behalf of, us with respect to
    term life insurance for the benefit of Mr. Massengill
    ($2,150), Mr. Shakeel ($3,930), Mr. Coyne ($4,440),
    Mr. Bukaty ($2,331), Dr. Moghadam ($7,475) and
    Mr. Milligan ($653), (iii) relocation expenses of
    $51,654 relating to Mr. Coyne s relocation from
    Malaysia to the United States, and (iv) $16,827 paid by us
    to Mr. Coyne for unused vacation days in accordance with
    our vacation policy. 

(5)  

This amount represents the final annual installment paid to
    Mr. Massengill upon the final July 1, 2005 vesting of
     share units  awarded to him pursuant to his Long-Term
    Retention Agreement. The Long-Term Retention Agreement pursuant
    to which Mr. Massengill received the share units is
    described below under  Employment Contracts, Termination of
    Employment and
     Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements.  

(6)  

Our 2004 fiscal year included 27 bi-weekly pay periods. 

(7)  

This amount represents the payment of two annual installments
    under a Long-Term Retention Agreement with Mr. Massengill:
    the first is a 2003 installment of $3,227,000 and the second is
    a 2004 installment of $3,637,200. We are reporting the combined
    amount of $6,864,200 in the table as a fiscal 2004 payment
    because the annual installment vesting of the  share
    units  underlying the payments occurred on July 1,
    2003 and July 1, 2004. Each of these dates was part of
    fiscal 2004 because fiscal 2004 commenced June 28, 2003 and
    ended July 2, 2004. The Long-Term Retention Agreement
    pursuant to which the Mr. Massengill received these share
    units is described below under  Employment Contracts,
    Termination of Employment and
     Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements.  

(8)  

Our Board of Directors promoted Mr. Shakeel to President
    and Chief Executive Officer effective October 1, 2005. He
    assumed the sole role of Chief Executive Officer in June 2006
    following the promotion of John Coyne to President and Chief
    Operating Officer. Prior to October 1, 2005,
    Mr. Shakeel served as our President and Chief Operating
    Officer. 

(9)  

We granted these restricted stock and restricted stock unit
    awards in fiscal 2006 under our 2004 Performance Incentive Plan
    and we have valued them in the table as of the date of grant. If
    we pay dividends, dividends would be payable on the shares of
    restricted stock listed in the table below at the same rate and
    time and in the same form in which dividends are payable on
    other outstanding shares of our common stock. No dividends would
    be payable on the shares of restricted stock units listed in the
    table below. The number, value as of the date of grant and
    vesting schedules of these restricted stock and restricted stock
    unit awards to the Named Executive Officers are as follows: 

81

Table of Contents   

*  

For Mr. Shakeel, this award includes 90,800 shares of
    restricted stock that were scheduled to vest on January 1,
    2008. This amount was cancelled on October 31, 2006
    pursuant to an amendment to our employment agreement with
    Mr. Shakeel. Also pursuant to this amendment, the remaining
    659,200 shares of restricted stock that were scheduled to vest
    on January 1, 2008 will instead vest on June 29, 2007
    if Mr. Shakeel is employed by us on that date. 

(10)  

This amount represents the final annual installment paid to
    Mr. Shakeel upon the final July 1, 2005 vesting of
     share units  awarded to him pursuant to his Long-Term
    Retention Agreement. The Long-Term Retention Agreement pursuant
    to which Mr. Shakeel received these share units is
    described below under  Employment Contracts, Termination of
    Employment and
     Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements.  

(11)  

This amount represents the payment of two annual installments
    under a Long-Term Retention Agreement with Mr. Shakeel: the
    first is a 2003 installment of $2,305,000 and the second is a
    2004 installment of $2,598,000. We are reporting the combined
    amount of $4,903,000 in the table as a fiscal 2004 payment
    because the annual installment vesting of the  share
    units  underlying the payments occurred on July 1,
    2003 and July 1, 2004. Each of these dates was part of
    fiscal 2004 because fiscal 2004 commenced June 28, 2003 and
    ended July 2, 2004. The Long-Term Retention Agreement
    pursuant to which Mr. Shakeel received these share units is
    described below under  Employment Contracts, Termination of
    Employment and
     Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements.  

(12)  

Mr. Coyne became an executive officer of Western Digital in
    fiscal 2005 and therefore we are providing no information prior
    to such year. 

(13)  

This amount includes a $75,000 retention bonus earned by
    Mr. Coyne pursuant to the Long-Term Retention Agreement
    described below under  Employment Contracts, Termination of
    Employment and
     Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements.  

(14)  

Consists of tax equalization payments paid by us on behalf of
    Mr. Coyne with respect to his services in Malaysia. 

(15)  

This amount includes a one-time discretionary bonus of $102,438
    paid to Mr. Bukaty. 

(16)  

Dr. Moghadam became an executive officer of Western Digital
    in fiscal 2005 and therefore we are providing no information
    prior to such year. 

(17)  

This amount includes a $112,500 retention bonus earned by
    Dr. Moghadam pursuant to the Long-Term Retention Agreement
    described below under  Employment Contracts, Termination of
    Employment and
     Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements.  

(18)  

This amount includes a $35,000 retention bonus earned by
    Mr. Milligan upon completion of twenty-four months of
    employment with us. 

(19)  

This amount consists of a retention bonus earned by
    Mr. Milligan upon completion of twelve months of employment
    with us. 

82

Table of Contents   

Option/SAR
    Grants in Last Fiscal Year  

The following table sets forth information regarding stock
    options to purchase shares of our common stock granted to the
    Named Executive Officers during fiscal 2006 and the potential
    realizable value at certain assumed rates of stock price
    appreciation for the option term. These assumed rates are in
    accordance with the rules of the Securities and Exchange
    Commission and do not represent our estimate of future stock
    price. Actual gains, if any, on stock option exercises will be
    dependent on the future performance of our common stock.

*  

We have not historically granted Stock Appreciation Rights. 

(1)  

All of these options to purchase shares of our common stock were
    granted under our 2004 Performance Incentive Plan and were
    granted at fair market value on the date of grant. Options
    become exercisable as to 25% of the total number of shares
    granted on the first anniversary of the grant date and 6.25% at
    the end of each three-month period thereafter, except that the
    option grant to Mr. Coyne covering 250,000 shares of
    our common stock vests in three equal annual installments
    beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date. All
    options have a term of 10 years, subject to earlier
    termination in connection with termination of employment. The
    Compensation Committee administers the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan and has broad discretion and authority to
    construe and interpret the plan. 

Aggregated
    Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End
    Option/SAR Values  

The following table sets forth the option exercises by the Named
    Executive Officers in fiscal 2006, the number of shares covered
    by exercisable and unexercisable options held by the Named
    Executive Officers on June 30, 2006, and the aggregate
    gains that would have been realized had these options been
    exercised on June 30, 2006 even though these options were
    not exercised, and the unexercisable options could not have been
    exercised, on June 30, 2006.

*  

We have not historically granted Stock Appreciation Rights. 

83

Table of Contents   

(1)  

We determine this value based on the market value on the date of
    exercise of shares covered by the exercised options, less the
    option exercise price. 

(2)  

These amounts represent the difference between the exercise
    price of
     in-the-money 
    options and the market price of our common stock on
    June 30, 2006, the last trading day of fiscal 2006. The
    closing price of our common stock on that day on the New York
    Stock Exchange was $19.81. Options are
     in-the-money 
    if the market value of the shares covered thereby is greater
    than the option exercise price. 

(3)  

These amounts include an aggregate of 43,750 shares of
    common stock subject to stock options granted to
    Mr. Shakeel that were cancelled October 31, 2006
    pursuant to an amendment to our employment agreement with
    Mr. Shakeel. 

Long-Term
    Incentive Plans   Awards in Last Fiscal Year  

The following table sets forth the dollar value of a long-term
    cash award granted to each of Mr. Coyne and
    Dr. Moghadam during fiscal 2006. Each long-term cash award
    is subject to our 2004 Performance Incentive Plan and a separate
    award agreement.

(1)  

The long-term cash award is valued at a target amount as
    determined by the administrator of our 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan and will be payable in cash at the end of the
    applicable performance period based upon the achievement of one
    or more objective performance goals set forth in the applicable
    award agreement. No amount will be payable if minimum
    performance levels are not achieved and up to a maximum of 200%
    of the target cash award will be payable if performance exceeds
    the target level. In the event the recipient ceases to be
    employed by us or any of our subsidiaries before the end of the
    applicable performance period, the long-term cash award will
    terminate, except that in the event of a recipient s death,
    a pro rata portion of the long-term cash award will be payable
    to the recipient s legal representative as further provided
    in the applicable award agreement. If eligible, each recipient
    will be permitted to defer payment of the long-term cash award
    covered by his agreement pursuant to our Deferred Compensation
    Plan. In addition, subject to certain limitations, 100% of the
    target award amount (or such greater percentage as the
    Compensation Committee may deem appropriate in the
    circumstances) will become payable upon the occurrence of a
    change in control event. 

Director
    Compensation  

Director Fees.   Effective January 1, 2006,
    non-employee directors receive an annual retainer of $75,000
    payable on January 1 of each year, or if they join the Board of
    Directors at a later date, they receive a proportion of the
    annual fee corresponding to the period for which they serve.
    Effective January 1, 2006, the chairman of the Audit
    Committee receives an additional annual retainer of $15,000 and
    each other member of the Audit Committee receives an additional
    annual retainer of $5,000. The chairmen of the Governance
    Committee and the Compensation Committee also each receive an
    additional annual retainer of $5,000. We provide these
    additional annual retainers for directors serving on the Audit
    Committee and for the chairmen of the Compensation and
    Governance Committees in recognition of the additional work
    required for such service. We also reimburse non-employee
    directors for reasonable
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses incurred in attending each Board of Directors or
    committee meeting; however, beginning January 1, 2006,
    non-employee directors do not receive a separate fee for each
    Board of Directors or committee meeting they attend.

Prior to January 1, 2006, each non-employee director
    received an annual retainer of $40,000 payable in January. Each
    non-employee director also received compensation of $2,500 for
    each session during which he or she attended a Board of
    Directors meeting, $1,500 for any and all committee meetings
    attended, $1,250 for each Board of Directors meeting and $750
    for each committee meeting held by telephone conference, plus
    reimbursement of reasonable
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses incurred in attending each meeting. In addition, the
    chairman of each committee of the Board of Directors received an
    annual retainer of $5,000.

84

Table of Contents   

In addition, on August 5, 2005, the Board of Directors
    approved the payment of $2,500 per day (or time aggregating
    a full work day) for time spent by any independent director
    outside of Board of Directors or committee meetings assisting
    with specified succession planning matters, resulting in
    additional payments aggregating $32,500 to members of our Board
    of Directors during fiscal 2006.

Messrs. Massengill, Shakeel and Coyne, who are our
    employees, do not receive any additional compensation for their
    service on the Board of Directors or any Board of Directors
    committee.

Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan.   Under our Amended and Restated Non-Employee
    Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan, each non-employee director may elect prior to any calendar
    year to receive shares in lieu of any or all of (1) the
    annual retainer fee(s) otherwise payable to him or her in cash
    for that calendar year,
     and/or 
    (2) for calendar years prior to 2006, the meeting
    attendance fees otherwise payable to him or her in cash for that
    calendar year. We determine the number of shares of common stock
    payable to a non-employee director under the Non-Employee
    Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan by dividing the amount of the cash fee the director would
    have otherwise received by the fair market value of the common
    stock on the date the cash fee would have been paid.

At the time of the election for a particular calendar year, we
    permit each non-employee director to defer between a minimum of
    $2,000 and a maximum of 100% of any cash or stock compensation
    to be paid to the director during that calendar year in
    accordance with our Deferred Compensation Plan. A deferral will
    not change the form (cash or shares) in which the fee is to be
    paid at the end of the deferral period. If a director has made
    an election pursuant to our Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan to defer common stock in lieu of annual retainer or meeting
    fees otherwise payable to the director, deferred stock units
    will be credited to the director s deferred compensation
    account and such deferred stock units will carry no voting or
    dividend rights. For amounts deferred in cash pursuant to our
    Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan, each participant may elect one or more measurement funds
    to be used to determine additional amounts to be credited to his
    or her account balance, including certain mutual funds and a
    declared rate fund under which we credit interest at a fixed
    rate for each plan year. We set the fixed interest rate prior to
    the beginning of the plan year. The fixed interest rate was
    5.25% for calendar year 2006, 5.50% for calendar year 2005, and
    6.00% for calendar year 2004. Prior to January 1, 2006,
    pursuant to the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan, we paid a 25% premium to each non-employee director who
    elected to defer annual retainer or meeting fees to be received
    in common stock. Effective January 1, 2006, the Board of
    Directors has eliminated the payment of this premium.

Non-employee directors have deferred the payment of annual
    retainer
     and/or 
    meeting fees pursuant to our Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan and our Deferred Compensation Plan in the last three fiscal
    years as follows:

(1)  

Includes a 25% premium, in the form of shares of our common
    stock, that each non-employee director received prior to
    January 1, 2006 under the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan for any election to defer common stock received in lieu of
    annual retainer or meeting fees otherwise payable to the
    director. After December 31, 2005, deferrals of common
    stock received in lieu of annual retainer or meeting fees are
    ineligible for a premium payment. 

(2)  

Includes a 15% premium, in the form of cash, that each
    non-employee director received prior to January 1, 2005
    under the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan for any election to defer his or her annual retainer or
    meeting fees to be received in cash. After December 31,
    2004, cash deferrals by non-employee directors are ineligible
    for a premium payment. 

85

Table of Contents   

The aggregate number of shares of common stock issued to our
    non-employee directors pursuant to elections under the
    Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan in each of the last three fiscal years was:
    (1) 3,639 shares in fiscal 2006 that were previously
    deferred under the Deferred Compensation Plan,
    (2) 15,299 shares in fiscal 2005, which includes
    13,454 shares of common stock previously deferred under the
    Deferred Compensation Plan, and (3) 3,392 shares in
    fiscal 2004. As of November 10, 2006, an aggregate of
    161,162 shares representing deferred stock units were
    credited to deferred compensation accounts of our non-employee
    directors.

We are authorized to issue a maximum of 400,000 shares of
    our common stock under the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan, subject to adjustments for stock splits and similar
    events. The Board of Directors has the power to suspend,
    discontinue or, subject to stockholder approval if required by
    applicable law or regulation, amend the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan at any time.

Non-Employee Director Option Grant
    Program.   Pursuant to the Non-Employee Director
    Option Grant Program adopted by our Board of Directors under our
    2004 Performance Incentive Plan, effective November 17,
    2005, we grant each non-employee director upon initial election
    or appointment to the Board of Directors an option to purchase a
    number of shares of our common stock that produces an
    approximate value for the option grant (using a Black-Scholes
    valuation as of the time of grant) equal to $300,000 on the
    grant date. After a non-employee director joins the Board of
    Directors, immediately following each annual meeting of
    stockholders if he or she has been re-elected as a director at
    that annual meeting, the non-employee director will receive an
    option to purchase a number of shares of our common stock that
    produces an approximate value for the option grant (using a
    Black-Scholes valuation as of the time of grant) equal to
    $100,000 on the grant date. Prior to November 17, 2005,
    each newly elected or appointed non-employee director
    automatically received an option grant covering
    75,000 shares of our common stock, and continuing
    non-employee directors automatically received an option grant
    covering 10,000 shares of our common stock immediately
    following each annual meeting of stockholders.

The per-share exercise price of all option grants under the
    Non-Employee Director Option Grant Program equals the fair
    market value of a share of our common stock on the date of
    grant, and the options vest over a period of four years, with
    25% vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date and 6.25%
    vesting at the end of each three-month period thereafter. In
    addition, all option grants under the Non-Employee Director
    Option Grant Program will vest only if the optionee has remained
    a director for the entire period from the grant date to the
    vesting date, unless the director retired after four years of
    service, in which case all options immediately vest and shall be
    exercised by the director before the earlier of (i) three
    years after the director s retirement or (ii) the
    expiration of the original term of the option, provided, in each
    case, the director has performed at least twelve months of
    service for us after the grant of the option and does not render
    services to any of our competitors. Shares of common stock that
    we may issue upon the exercise of stock options granted under
    the Non-Employee Director Option Grant Program are subject to
    the applicable share limits specified in our 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan.

Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant
    Program.   Our Board of Directors has adopted a
    Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant Program under
    our 2004 Performance Incentive Plan pursuant to which we grant
    restricted stock units, or RSUs, to our non-employee directors.
    Pursuant to this program, effective as of January 1, 2006,
    we award non-employee directors a number of RSUs each January 1
    equal in value (based on the fair market value of an equivalent
    number of shares of our common stock on the grant date) to
    $100,000. We award non-employee directors who are newly elected
    or appointed to the Board of Directors after January 1 of a
    given year a prorated award of RSUs for that year. Prior to
    calendar year 2006, we granted non-employee directors 2,100 RSUs
    each January 1 following adoption of the plan through calendar
    year 2004 and 4,527 RSUs through calendar year 2005.

All RSUs vest 100% on the third anniversary of the grant.
    However, if a director served as a director for at least 48
    continuous months when such director ceases to be a director,
    all unvested RSUs vest immediately upon the director s
    termination, provided that the director has performed at least
    twelve months of service for us after the grant of the RSU. If a
    director ceases to be a director for any reason (except removal)
    prior to meeting the eligibility requirements for accelerated
    vesting discussed above, then all of the unvested RSUs granted
    in the first twelve months prior to termination terminate
    without vesting, 1/3 of all unvested RSUs granted within the
    second twelve-month period prior to termination immediately vest
    and become payable, and 2/3 of all unvested RSUs granted within
    the third twelve-month period prior to termination immediately
    vest and become payable. These RSUs are generally paid in an
    equal number of shares of our common stock following the vesting
    date. If dividends are paid prior to the vesting and payment of
    the RSUs, the director

86

Table of Contents   

is credited with additional RSUs as dividend equivalents that
    are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying
    RSUs. Shares of common stock issued in respect of the
    Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant Program are
    subject to the applicable share limits specified in our 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan.

We also permit non-employee directors to defer receipt of RSUs
    payable under the Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit
    Grant Program pursuant to our Deferred Compensation Plan.

Employment
    Contracts, Termination of Employment and
     Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements  

Employment
    Arrangements   

Mr. Massengill.   On August 25, 2005,
    we entered into an Employment Agreement with Mr. Massengill
    pursuant to which he relinquished the role of Chief Executive
    Officer, effective October 1, 2005, and agreed to continue
    to serve as Chairman of our Board of Directors or in such other
    executive capacity as the Board of Directors may assign.
    Mr. Massengill s duties as Chairman of the Board
    include offering assistance to Mr. Shakeel in his new
    position as Chief Executive Officer and coordinating investor
    communications.

In accordance with the agreement, Mr. Massengill will
    continue to receive base salary at his current annual rate of
    $800,000, his target annual bonus under our Incentive
    Compensation Plan is 100% of his base salary, and
    Mr. Massengill will be entitled to participate in our other
    benefit plans on terms consistent with those generally
    applicable to our other senior executives. We have cancelled
    Mr. Massengill s outstanding stock options and shares
    of restricted stock, to the extent that such options and shares
    of restricted stock were scheduled to vest after July 31,
    2007, pursuant to the agreement. Provided that
    Mr. Massengill remains employed by us through
    January 1, 2007, any of his outstanding stock options and
    any of his shares of restricted stock scheduled to vest after
    January 1, 2007 and on or before July 31, 2007 will
    accelerate and become vested on January 1, 2007. With
    respect to the accelerated options, Mr. Massengill will
    have until the later of (i) January 1, 2010, or
    (ii) the time the options would have otherwise expired or
    been terminated in accordance with the termination of employment
    rules otherwise applicable to the options (but in no event later
    than the expiration date of the options) to exercise the
    options. Also pursuant to the agreement, the entire performance
    share award granted to Mr. Massengill in January 2005 has
    been cancelled.

If we terminate Mr. Massengill s employment other than
    for cause (as defined in the agreement) prior to January 1,
    2007, Mr. Massengill will be entitled to (i) a lump
    sum cash payment equal to his base salary and target bonus for
    the period between the date his employment terminates and
    January 1, 2007, and (ii) accelerated vesting of any
    and all options and other equity-based awards then outstanding
    and not otherwise fully vested, but only to the extent such
    awards were otherwise scheduled to vest on or before
    July 31, 2007. The Employment Agreement with
    Mr. Massengill expires January 1, 2007, subject to
    certain termination provisions.

Mr. Shakeel.   On August 25, 2005, we
    also entered into an Employment Agreement with Mr. Shakeel
    pursuant to which he became President and Chief Executive
    Officer on October 1, 2005. We subsequently entered into an
    amendment to this agreement with Mr. Shakeel on
    October 31, 2006. In accordance with the agreement, as
    amended, Mr. Shakeel will serve as our President and Chief
    Executive Officer through January 1, 2007 and as a Special
    Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer from January 2, 2007
    through June 29, 2007. During such period of employment,
    Mr. Shakeel s annual base salary is $800,000, his
    target annual bonus under our Incentive Compensation Plan is
    100% of his base salary, and Mr. Shakeel is entitled to
    participate in our other benefit plans on terms consistent with
    those generally applicable to our other senior executives.
    Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Shakeel received an award of
    1,250,000 shares of restricted stock on August 25,
    2005. An aggregate of 500,000 shares subject to this award
    will vest on January 1, 2007. The remaining
    750,000 shares subject to this award were scheduled to vest
    on January 1, 2008; however, in accordance with the
    amendment to Mr. Shakeel s Employment Agreement,
    90,800 shares subject to this award were cancelled on
    October 31, 2006 and the remaining 659,200 shares will
    instead now vest in full on June 29, 2007 subject to
    Mr. Shakeel s employment on that date.

In addition, pursuant to the agreement, we have cancelled
    Mr. Shakeel s outstanding stock options and shares of
    restricted stock effective August 25, 2005 to the extent
    that such options and shares of restricted stock were scheduled
    to vest after December 31, 2007, as well as the entire
    performance share award granted to Mr. Shakeel in January
    2005. In accordance with the amendment to
    Mr. Shakeel s Employment Agreement, on
    October 31, 2006, we also cancelled an

87

Table of Contents   

aggregate of 43,750 shares subject to stock options
    previously granted to Mr. Shakeel that were scheduled to
    vest after June 29, 2007 and before January 1, 2008.

If we terminate Mr. Shakeel s employment other than
    for cause (as defined in the agreement) prior to June 29,
    2007, Mr. Shakeel will be entitled to (i) a lump sum
    cash payment equal to his base salary and target bonus for the
    period between the date his employment terminates and
    June 29, 2007, and (ii) accelerated vesting of any and
    all options and other equity-based awards then outstanding and
    not otherwise fully vested, but only to the extent such awards
    were otherwise scheduled to vest before June 29, 2007. The
    Employment Agreement with Mr. Shakeel, as amended, expires
    June 29, 2007, subject to certain termination provisions.

Mr. Coyne.   On October 31, 2006, we
    entered into an Employment Agreement with Mr. Coyne
    pursuant to which he will be become Chief Executive Officer
    while also retaining his current title as President. In
    accordance with the agreement, effective January 2, 2007,
    Mr. Coyne s annual base salary will increase to
    $800,000, his target annual bonus under our Incentive
    Compensation Plan will increase to 100% of his base salary and
    he will be entitled to participate in our other benefit plans on
    terms consistent with those generally applicable to our other
    senior executives.

Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Coyne also received two
    long-term performance cash awards, each that provide for a cash
    bonus opportunity with a target amount of $1,000,000. One cash
    award corresponds to the performance period July 1, 2006
    through June 29, 2007 and the other cash award corresponds
    to the performance period July 1, 2006 through
    June 27, 2008. The performance cash awards are each subject
    to performance objectives determined by our Compensation
    Committee. In addition, each year during Mr. Coyne s
    employment as President and Chief Executive Officer commencing
    after the first day of fiscal year 2008, Mr. Coyne will be
    eligible for and will receive a performance cash award with a
    target amount of no less than $2,000,000. Each such performance
    cash award will be based on a
     24-month 
    performance cycle.

Subject to Mr. Coyne s employment as President and
    Chief Executive Officer on January 31, 2007, the agreement
    also provides that Mr. Coyne will receive 1,100,000
    restricted stock units under our 2004 Performance Incentive Plan
    on January 31, 2007. Subject to Mr. Coyne s
    employment by us, these units will vest and become payable as
    follows: 110,000 on January 1, 2008, 110,000 on
    January 1, 2009, 330,000 on January 1, 2010, 110,000
    on January 1, 2011 and 440,000 on January 1, 2012.
    Also on January 31, 2007, Mr. Coyne will receive a
    stock option under our 2004 Performance Incentive Plan to
    purchase 120,000 shares of our common stock (subject to
    proportionate and equitable adjustments for stock splits and
    similar changes in capitalization). The exercise price per share
    of the option will equal the fair market value of a share of our
    common stock on the grant date of the option. If we are in a
    trading blackout period on January 31, 2007 pursuant to our
    policies on trading company securities applicable to executive
    officers generally, our Compensation Committee may, in its
    discretion, delay the effective date of grant of either or both
    of the restricted stock unit award or the stock option until
    after the blackout period ends, in which case the grant of these
    awards will be made effective by approval of our Compensation
    Committee promptly following the end of the blackout period (and
    the date of the option will be the date of this approval).

In addition, pursuant to the agreement, in each of our four
    fiscal years commencing with fiscal year 2008, Mr. Coyne
    will receive a stock option to purchase shares of our common
    stock. The number of shares subject to these stock options will
    be determined in the good faith discretion of our Compensation
    Committee based on Mr. Coyne s individual performance,
    our performance and market benchmark comparisons of compensation
    data for chief executive officers against both peer group and
    general industry survey data.

If we terminate Mr. Coyne s employment prior to
    January 1, 2012 other than for cause (as defined in the
    agreement) or Mr. Coyne s death or disability,
    Mr. Coyne will be entitled to the Tier 1 benefits
    under our Executive Severance Plan or, if applicable, the
    benefits under our Amended and Restated Change of Control
    Severance Plan and payment of certain other accrued obligations,
    including annual base salary and vacation accrued through
    Mr. Coyne s termination date.

In the event Mr. Coyne remains employed by us as President
    and Chief Executive Officer through January 1, 2012, then
    upon Mr. Coyne s termination for any reason other than
    cause, all stock options granted to Mr. Coyne during the
    term of his employment agreement will become fully vested and
    Mr. Coyne will have three years to exercise the options,
    subject to their earlier expiration. In addition, Mr. Coyne
    will be eligible to receive payout following the end of each
    performance period subject to any outstanding performance cash
    award on a pro-rata basis based on the period of

88

Table of Contents   

Mr. Coyne s employment by us during the applicable
    performance period. The Employment Agreement with Mr. Coyne
    expires January 1, 2012, subject to certain termination
    provisions.

Long-Term
    Retention Agreements   

Mr. Massengill and Mr. Shakeel.   We
    entered into Amended and Restated Long-Term Retention Agreements
    with each of Mr. Massengill and Mr. Shakeel, effective
    December 20, 2002, amending and restating prior long-term
    retention agreements with each of them. The Long-Term Retention
    Agreements were intended to add incentives for the executives to
    advance our long-term interests. Pursuant to the Long-Term
    Retention Agreements, our Board of Directors granted
    Mr. Massengill and Mr. Shakeel 1.4 million and
    1.0 million  share units,  respectively, subject
    to certain adjustment, vesting, forfeiture and repayment
    provisions. The share units vested in three installments: 25%
    vested on July 1, 2003, 30% vested on July 1, 2004 and
    45% vested on July 1, 2005. Within fifteen days of each
    vesting period, we paid each executive a cash amount equal to
    the product of the number of share units that vested and the
    average closing price of our common stock for the preceding
    forty-five day period, but in no event more than $9.22 per
    share unit. The  share units  granted to each of the
    executives have fully vested and, therefore, no further payments
    will be made to Mr. Massengill or Mr. Shakeel pursuant
    to these agreements. We have further detailed the amounts paid
    to each executive under  Executive Compensation  
    Summary Compensation Table  on page 80.

Mr. Coyne and
    Dr. Moghadam.   Effective as of
    September 21, 2004, we entered into Long-Term Retention
    Agreements with each of Mr. Coyne and Dr. Moghadam for
    the purpose of giving each of them an added incentive to advance
    our interests. Pursuant to these agreements, Mr. Coyne
    received a cash award in the amount of $300,000 and
    Dr. Moghadam received a cash award in the amount of
    $450,000. Each award vested and became payable 25% on
    September 1, 2005 and 30% on September 1, 2006 and the
    remaining 45% will vest and become payable on September 1,
    2007, subject to each executive s continued employment with
    us. In the event of certain corporate changes (as described in
    the agreements and including our liquidation or a merger,
    reorganization or consolidation with another company in which we
    are not the surviving corporation and the surviving corporation
    does not assume the award or agree to issue a substitute award
    in its place) or certain terminations of the executive s
    termination of employment upon a change of control (as defined
    in the agreement), any unvested portion of the cash award will
    vest in full and be payable to the executive. Further, in the
    event that the executive s employment with us terminates
    due to his death, the next installment of the cash award
    scheduled to vest will immediately vest and become payable and
    all other unvested portions of the cash award will be forfeited.

Executive
    Severance Plan   

On February 16, 2006, our Board of Directors adopted an
    Executive Severance Plan. Participants in the Executive
    Severance Plan include certain of our senior management who are
    not otherwise currently party to a written employment agreement
    (other than an agreement providing for at-will employment and
    for no specified term) and who our Board of Directors or
    Compensation Committee has designated as a Tier 1
    Executive, Tier 2 Executive or Tier 3 Executive. The
    Compensation Committee has designated each of Mr. Coyne,
    Mr. Bukaty, Dr. Moghadam and Mr. Milligan as
    Tier 1 Executives under the Executive Severance Plan.
    Mr. Massengill and Mr. Shakeel are not eligible to
    participate in the Executive Severance Plan.

The Executive Severance Plan provides that a participant will
    receive the following severance benefits in the event of
    termination of employment without cause (as defined in the
    Executive Severance Plan):

(1) a lump sum severance payment equal to the
    participant s monthly base salary minus applicable taxes
    over a number of months ranging from 12 months to
    24 months depending upon the participant s status as a
    Tier 1, Tier 2 or Tier 3 Executive;

(2) a lump sum pro-rata bonus payment minus applicable
    taxes under our bonus program for the bonus cycle in which the
    participant s termination date occurs (determined based on
    the number of days in the applicable bonus cycle during which
    the participant was employed (not to exceed six months) and
    assuming we meet 100% of the performance target(s) subject to
    the bonus award regardless of actual funding by us);

(3) acceleration of the vesting of the participant s
    then outstanding stock options and restricted stock or stock
    unit awards that are subject to time-based vesting requirements
    to the extent such stock options and restricted stock

89

Table of Contents   

or stock units awards would have vested and become exercisable
    or payable, as applicable, if the participant had remained
    employed for an additional six months;

(4) outplacement services provided by a vendor chosen by us
    and at our expense for 12 months following the
    participant s termination of employment; and

(5) payment by us of applicable COBRA premium payments
    following expiration of the participant s company-provided
    medical, dental
     and/or 
    vision coverage existing as of the participant s
    termination date for a number of months ranging from
    12 months to 24 months depending upon the
    participant s status as a Tier 1, Tier 2 or
    Tier 3 Executive, unless and until the participant
    otherwise becomes eligible for equivalent coverage under another
    employer s plan.

Payment of severance benefits under the Executive Severance Plan
    is conditioned upon the participant s execution of a valid
    and effective release. In addition, no participant is entitled
    to a duplication of benefits under the Executive Severance Plan
    or any other severance plan of ours or our subsidiaries.

Change
    of Control Severance Plan   

Effective March 29, 2001, our Board of Directors adopted a
    Change of Control Severance Plan covering certain of our
    executives and our subsidiaries  executives, including each
    of the currently employed Named Executive Officers. The Change
    of Control Severance Plan provides for payment of severance
    benefits to each participating executive officer in the event of
    termination of his or her employment in connection with a change
    of control of Western Digital. The plan provides for two levels
    of severance benefits. The severance benefits are payable if we
    or our subsidiaries terminate the employment of the executive
    officer without cause or the employee voluntarily terminates his
    or her employment for good reason (generally consisting of
    adverse changes in responsibilities, compensation, benefits or
    location of work place, or breach of the plan by us or any
    successor) within one year after a change of control or prior to
    and in connection with, or in anticipation of, such a change.
    The plan was amended in February 2006 to extend its term until
    March 29, 2011.

For each of the Named Executive Officers and certain other
    officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
    Act, the severance benefits generally consist of the following:

(1) a lump sum payment equal to two times the
    officer s annual base compensation plus the target bonus as
    in effect immediately prior to the change in control or as in
    effect on the date of notice of termination of the executive
    officer s employment with us, whichever is higher;

(2) 100% vesting of any unvested stock options granted to
    the officer by us;

(3) extension of the period during which the officer may
    exercise his or her stock options to the longer of
    (a) 90 days after the date of termination of his or
    her employment and (b) the period specified in the plan or
    agreement governing the options;

(4) continuation for a period of 24 months of the same
    or equivalent life, health, hospitalization, dental and
    disability insurance coverage and other employee insurance or
    welfare benefits, including equivalent coverage for the
    officer s spouse and dependent children, and a car
    allowance equal to what the officer was receiving immediately
    prior to the change in control, or a lump sum payment equal to
    the cost of obtaining coverage for 24 months if the officer
    is ineligible to be covered under the terms of our insurance and
    welfare benefit plans;

(5) a lump sum payment equal to the amount of in-lieu
    payments that the officer would have been entitled to receive
    during the 24 months after termination of his or her
    employment if prior to the change in control, the officer was
    receiving any
     cash-in-lieu 
    payments designed to enable the officer to obtain insurance
    coverage of his or her choosing; and

(6) acceleration of all awards granted to the officer under
    our Executive Retention Plan adopted in 1998 or any similar plan.

Any health and welfare benefits will be reduced to the extent of
    the receipt of substantially equivalent coverage by the officer
    from any successor employer. Generally, the benefits will be
    increased to the extent the officer has to pay taxes associated
    with  excess parachute payments  under the Internal
    Revenue Code, such that the net amount received by the officer
    is equal to the total payments he or she would have received had
    the tax not been incurred.

90

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Incentive Plans and Deferred Compensation Plan  

Subject to certain conditions or restrictions as described in
    our stock incentive plans, these stock incentive plans generally
    provide for the acceleration of the vesting of awards granted
    thereunder in the event of certain change of control events
    described in the plans. In these circumstances, each option may
    become immediately exercisable and each restricted stock or
    stock unit award may immediately vest. Further, under our
    Deferred Compensation Plan, in the event of certain change of
    control events described in the plan, contribution and deferral
    amounts will immediately vest (to the extent unvested) and will
    become payable to the participants as provided in the plan.

Broad-Based
    Stock Incentive Plan   

On September 30, 1999, our Board of Directors approved the
    Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan under which options to purchase
    2,578,753 shares of our common stock were outstanding as of
    June 30, 2006 and 220,956 shares of restricted stock
    remained unvested as of June 30, 2006. This plan was
    intended to qualify as  broadly-based  under the New
    York Stock Exchange stockholder approval policy at the time of
    its adoption and was not submitted to our stockholders for
    approval. Following approval of the 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan by our stockholders in November 2004, no new awards are
    permitted under the Broad-Based Incentive Plan after such date
    and, therefore, no shares remain available for grant under the
    plan.

None of the stock options that we granted under the plan are
    incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Internal
    Revenue Code and the term of each outstanding option granted
    under the plan will not exceed ten years from the date of its
    grant. All unvested shares of restricted common stock that we
    awarded under the plan are subject to time-based vesting
    requirements. All of such shares of restricted stock will vest
    on or before September 21, 2008 unless such shares are
    earlier forfeited as required by the plan or by an agreement
    evidencing the award made under the plan.

The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors administers
    the Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan. The committee has broad
    discretionary authority to construe and interpret the plan. The
    committee may in its discretion provide financing to a
    participant in a principal amount sufficient to pay the purchase
    price of any award
     and/or  to
    pay the amount of taxes required by law to be withheld with
    respect to any award. Any such loan must be subject to all
    applicable legal requirements and restrictions pertinent
    thereto. Further, the committee may, through the terms of the
    award or otherwise, provide for lapse of restrictions on an
    option or restricted stock award, either immediately upon a
    change of control of Western Digital (as defined in the plan),
    or upon termination of the eligible employee s employment
    within 24 months following a change of control. The
    committee may also provide for the exercise, payment or lapse of
    restrictions on an award that is only effective if no provision
    is made in the change of control transaction.

The Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee, subject to
    rules of the New York Stock Exchange requiring stockholder
    approval, may amend, alter or discontinue agreements evidencing
    an award made under the plan. These amendments may include:
    (i) reducing the exercise price of outstanding options; or
    (ii) after the date of a change of control, impairing the
    rights of any award holder, without such holder s consent,
    under any award granted prior to the date of any change of
    control. No award, or any interest in an award may be
    transferred in any manner, other than by will or the laws of
    descent and distribution, unless the agreement evidencing an
    award expressly states that it is transferable.

Compensation
    Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  

During fiscal 2006, the Compensation Committee consisted of
    Messrs. Behrendt, Lambert and Moore. All members of the
    Compensation Committee during fiscal 2006 were independent
    directors and none of them were our employees or former
    employees or had any relationship with us requiring disclosure
    under rules of the Securities Exchange Commission requiring
    disclosure of certain relationships and related party
    transactions. There are no Compensation Committee interlocks
    between us and other entities in which one of our executive
    officers served on the compensation committee (or equivalent) or
    the board of directors of another entity whose executive
    officer(s) served on our Compensation Committee or Board of
    Directors.

91

Table of Contents   

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Security
    Ownership by Principal Stockholders and Management  

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the
    beneficial ownership of our common stock, as of
    November 10, 2006, by (1) each person known by us to
    own beneficially more than 5% of our outstanding common stock,
    (2) each director and each nominee for election as a member
    of our Board of Directors, (3) each of the executive
    officers named in the Summary Compensation Table below, and
    (4) all current directors and executive officers as a
    group. This table is based on information supplied to us by our
    executive officers, directors and principal stockholders or
    included in a Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission.

*  

Represents less than 1% of the outstanding shares of our common
    stock. 

(1)  

We determine beneficial ownership in accordance with the rules
    of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We deem shares
    subject to options currently exercisable or exercisable within
    60 days after November 10, 2006 outstanding for
    computing the share amount and the percentage ownership of the
    person holding such stock options, but we do not deem them
    outstanding for purposes of computing the percentage ownership
    of any other person. 

92

Table of Contents   

(2)  

Except as otherwise noted below, we determine applicable
    percentage ownership on 221,664,618 shares of our common
    stock outstanding as of November 10, 2006. 

(3)  

Beneficial and percentage ownership information is based on
    information contained in a Schedule 13G/A filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on October 10, 2006 by
    Barclays Global Investors, NA., and certain affiliates. 

(4)  

Beneficial and percentage ownership information is based on
    information contained in Amendment No. 1 to
    Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on February 3, 2006 by Goldman Sachs Asset
    Management, L.P. 

(5)  

We determine beneficial and percentage ownership information on
    information contained in Amendment No. 4 to
    Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on February 14, 2006 by FMR Corp. and Edward C.
    Johnson III. According to the schedule, Fidelity
    Management & Research Company (a wholly owned
    subsidiary of FMR Corp.) beneficially owns
    16,041,310 shares, representing 7.2% of our outstanding
    common stock. The schedule also discloses that members of
    Mr. Johnson s family are the predominant owners of
    Class B shares of FMR Corp., representing 49% of the voting
    power of FMR Corp., and all Class B shareholders have
    entered into a shareholders  agreement under which their
    shares will be voted in accordance with the majority vote of
    Class B shares. As such, members of Mr. Johnson s
    family may be deemed to be members of a controlling group with
    respect to FMR Corp. Additionally, the schedule discloses that a
    partnership controlled predominantly by members of
    Mr. Johnson s family has the power to vote
    approximately 38% of the total voting stock of Fidelity
    International Limited, or FIL. FMR Corp. and FIL are of the
    view, however, that they are not acting as a group and that they
    are not otherwise required to attribute beneficial ownership of
    our common stock to one another. 

(6)  

Beneficial and percentage ownership information on information
    is based contained in a Schedule 13G filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on February 13, 2006 by
    LSV Asset Management. 

(7)  

Beneficial and percentage ownership information is based on
    information contained in a Schedule 13G filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2006 by
    Mellon Financial Corporation. 

(8)  

Includes shares of our common stock that may be acquired within
    60 days after November 10, 2006 through the exercise
    of stock options as follows: Mr. Behrendt (68,125),
    Ms. Cote (25,625), Mr. DeNero (45,625),
    Mr. Kimsey (26,875), Mr. Lambert (50,625),
    Mr. Moore (45,625), and Mr. Pardun (60,625). Does not
    include shares representing deferred stock units credited to
    accounts in our Deferred Compensation Plan as of
    November 10, 2006, as to which participants currently have
    no voting or investment power, as follows: Mr. Behrendt
    (2,120), Ms. Cote (31,309), Mr. DeNero (45,487),
    Mr. Kimsey (4,828), Mr. Moore (57,567), and
    Mr. Pardun (19,851). 

(9)  

Includes 750 shares of our common stock held by
    Mr. Behrendt s children. 

(10)  

Includes 5,000 shares of our common stock held in a family
    trust. 

(11)  

Messrs. Massengill, Shakeel and Coyne are also members of
    our Board of Directors. 

(12)  

Includes shares of our common stock that may be acquired within
    60 days after November 10, 2006 through the exercise
    of stock options as follows: Mr. Massengill (612,150),
    Mr. Shakeel (96,875), Mr. Coyne (128,021),
    Mr. Bukaty (156,314), Mr. Milligan (58,782) and
    Dr. Moghadam (46,375). 

(13)  

Includes 1,421,642 shares of our common stock that may be
    acquired within 60 days after November 10, 2006
    through the exercise of stock options by our directors and each
    of our executive officers. Does not include 161,162 shares
    of our common stock representing deferred stock units as
    described in footnote 8 above. 

93

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table gives information with respect to our equity
    compensation plans as of June 30, 2006, which plans were as
    follows: Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan, 2004 Performance Incentive Plan, Employee Stock Option
    Plan, Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan, Stock Option Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors and 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
    With the exception of the Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan,
    these plans have each been approved by our stockholders.
    Following expiration of the Employee Stock Option Plan on
    November 10, 2004 and approval of the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan by our stockholders on November 18, 2004, no
    new awards are permitted under the Employee Stock Option Plan,
    the Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock Option Plan
    for Non-Employee Directors.

(1)  

Of these shares, as of June 30, 2006, 2,581,540 were
    subject to stock options outstanding under the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan, 6,951,017 were subject to stock options
    outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plan, 308,437 were
    subject to stock options outstanding under the Stock Option Plan
    for Non-Employee Directors, and 161,162 were subject to deferred
    stock units credited under the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan that will be paid in an equivalent number of shares. In
    addition, this amount does not include an aggregate of
    3,340,920 shares of restricted stock and restricted stock
    unit awards that were unvested as of June 30, 2006 under
    the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan and will vest through
    September 30, 2009. 

(2)  

This number reflects the weighted-average exercise price of
    outstanding options and has been calculated exclusive of
    deferred stock units credited under the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan. 

(3)  

Of these shares, as of June 30, 2006, 14,244,266 remained
    available for future issuance under the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan, 150,218 remained available for future issuance
    under the Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-for-Fees 
    Plan and 4,470,624 remained available for future issuance under
    the 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 

(4)  

Does not include an aggregate of 220,956 shares of
    restricted stock outstanding and unvested as of June 30,
    2006 under the Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan that will vest
    through September 21, 2008. 

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions   

None.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The accounting firm of KPMG LLP, certified public accountants,
    has served as our independent accountants since our
    incorporation in 1970. The Audit Committee of the Board of
    Directors has again appointed KPMG to serve as our independent
    accountants for the fiscal year ending June 29, 2007.

94

Table of Contents   

Following are the fees paid by us to KPMG for the fiscal years
    ended June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005:

(1)  

Audit-Related Fees billed in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005
    consisted of audits of our distributors, accounting assistance
    to our subsidiaries, and audits performed in connection with the
    Western Digital Corporation 401(k) Plan. 

(2)  

Tax Fees in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 consisted of tax
    compliance assistance and related services and transfer pricing
    review. 

The Audit Committee has adopted a policy regarding the
    pre-approval of audit and non-audit services to be provided by
    our independent accountants. The policy requires that KPMG LLP
    seek pre-approval by the Audit Committee of all audit and
    permissible non-audit services by providing a description of the
    services to be performed and specific fee estimates for each
    such service. The Audit Committee has delegated to the Chairman
    of the Audit Committee the authority to pre-approve
    audit-related and permissible non-audit services and associated
    fees up to a maximum for any one audit-related or non-audit
    service of US$50,000, provided that the Chairman shall report
    any decisions to pre-approve such audit-related or non-audit
    services and fees to the full Audit Committee at its next
    regular meeting for ratification. One-hundred percent (100%) of
    the Audit-Related Fees and Tax Fees billed by KPMG during fiscal
    2006 and fiscal 2005 were approved by the Audit Committee
    pursuant to regulations of the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.

95

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) Documents filed as a part of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

(1)  Financial Statements 

The financial statements included in Part II, Item 8
    of this document are filed as part of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules 

The financial statement schedule included in Part II,
    Item 8 of this document is filed as part of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

All other schedules are omitted as the required information is
    inapplicable or the information is presented in the consolidated
    financial statements or related Notes.

Separate financial statements have been omitted as we are
    primarily an operating company and our subsidiaries are wholly
    or majority owned and do not have minority equity interests
     and/or 
    indebtedness to any person other than us in amounts which
    together exceed 5% of the total consolidated assets as shown by
    the most recent year-end consolidated balance sheet.

(3)  Exhibits 

The following exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated by
    reference, as specified below, from exhibits previously filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We shall furnish
    copies of exhibits for a reasonable fee (covering the expense of
    furnishing copies) upon written request to our Secretary at our
    principal executive offices.

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

2

.1

Asset Purchase Agreement between
    Chapter 7 Trustee for the Bankruptcy Estate of Read-Rite
    Corporation and RR (US) Acquisition Corporation, dated
    July 24, 2003, including Option Agreements to purchase all
    of the outstanding capital stock of Read-Rite International,
    Sunward Technologies International, and Read Rite Holding
    Company(14)

3

.1

Amended and Restated Certificate
    of Incorporation of Western Digital Corporation, as amended to
    date(26)

3

.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of
    Western Digital Corporation, as amended effective as of
    May 10, 2006(29)

4

.1

Rights Agreement between Western
    Digital Corporation and American Stock Transfer & Trust
    Company, as Rights Agent, dated as of April 6, 2001, which
    includes as Exhibit A thereto the Form of Right Certificate
    to be distributed to holders of Rights after the Distribution
    Date (as that term is defined in the Rights Agreement)(7)

4

.2

Form of Common Stock Certificate(1)

4

.3

Certificate of Designations of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Western
    Digital Corporation, dated April 6, 2001(7)

10

.1

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan, effective
    as of November 17, 2005(25)*

10

.1.1

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Option and Option Agreement   Executives, under the
    Western Digital Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive Plan(29)*

10

.1.2

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Agreement  
    Executives, under the Western Digital Corporation 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan(18)*

10

.1.3

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan
    Non-Employee Director Option Grant Program, effective as of
    November 17, 2005, and Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Option and Option Agreement   Non-Employee
    Directors 

10

.1.4

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Performance Share Awards and Performance Share Award Agreement
    under the Western Digital Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(20)*

10

.1.5

Form of Notice of Stock Option
    Grant and Stock Option Agreement   Non-Executives,
    under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan(29)*

96

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.1.6

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock
    Agreement   Non-Executives, under the Western
    Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan(18)*

10

.1.7

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Units and Stock Unit Award Agreement   Executives,
    under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan(27)*

10

.1.8

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Units and Stock Unit Award Agreement, under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(27)*

10

.1.9

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Long-Term Cash Award and Long-Term Cash Award
    Agreement   Executives, under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(27)*

10

.1.10

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Long-Term Cash Award and Long-Term Cash Award
    Agreement   Employees, under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(27)*

10

.2

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated Employee Stock Option Plan, as amended on
    November 5, 1998(3)*

10

.2.1

First Amendment to the Western
    Digital Corporation Employee Stock Option Plan, dated
    April 6, 2001(8)*

10

.2.2

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Options and Stock Option Agreement under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated Employee Stock Option Plan as
    amended(22)*

10

.3

Western Digital Corporation
    Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan(5)*

10

.3.1

First Amendment to the Western
    Digital Corporation Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan, dated
    April 6, 2001(8)*

10

.3.2

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Agreement under the
    Western Digital Corporation Broad Based Stock Incentive Plan as
    amended(22)*

10

.4

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
    Directors, effective as of May 25, 2000(8)

10

.4.1

First Amendment to the Western
    Digital Corporation Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors, dated April 6, 2001(8)

10

.5

Western Digital Corporation 2005
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan, effective as of November 17,
    2005(25)*

10

.6

Amended and Restated Western
    Digital Corporation Non-Employee Directors
     Stock-For-Fees 
    Plan, effective as of November 17, 2005(26)

10

.7

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan
    Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant Program, as
    amended November 9, 2006 

10

.8

Western Digital Corporation
    Incentive Compensation Plan(9)*

10

.9

Western Digital Corporation
    Summary of Compensation Arrangements for Named Executive
    Officers and Directors *

10

.10

Amended and Restated Deferred
    Compensation Plan, effective March 28, 2003(13)*

10

.11

Amended and Restated Executive
    Bonus Plan, effective March 28, 2003(13)*

10

.12

Amended and Restated 401(k) Plan,
    adopted as of March 28, 2002(10)*

10

.12.1

First Amendment to Western Digital
    Corporation 401(k) Plan, effective as of July 1, 2002(12)*

10

.12.2

Second Amendment to Western
    Digital Corporation 401(k) Plan, effective as of March 28,
    2005(28)*

10

.12.3

Third Amendment to Western Digital
    Corporation 401(k) Plan, effective as of March 31, 2006(28)*

10

.13

Western Digital Corporation
    Executive Retention Plan(2)*

10

.14

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    August 25, 2005 between Western Digital Corporation and
    Matthew E. Massengill(23)*

10

.15

Employment Agreement dated as of
    August 25, 2005, between Western Digital Corporation and
    Arif Shakeel(21)*

10

.15.1

Amendment to Employment Agreement,
    dated as of October 31, 2006, between Western Digital
    Corporation and Arif Shakeel(30)

10

.16

Long-Term Retention
    Agreement   Cash, between Western Digital Corporation
    and Hossein M. Moghadam, dated as of September 21,
    2004(22)*

97

Table of Contents   

98

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.29.3

Amendment No. 3 to Volume
    Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2006, by and
    between Komag USA (Malaysia) Sdn., Komag, Incorporated, and
    Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(26) 

10

.30

Supply Agreement, dated as of
    August 17, 2005, by and between Showa Denko K.K. and
    Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(22) 

10

.30.1

Amendment No. 1 to Supply
    Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2006, by and between Showa
    Denko K.K. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.  

10

.31

Supply Agreement for the
    Fabrication and Purchase of Semiconductor Products, dated
    June 13, 2002, among Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., Marvell
    Asia Pte. Ltd. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(13)(15)

10

.32

Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement, dated as of September 19, 2003, among Western
    Digital Technologies, Inc., the other credit parties identified
    therein, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A.(19) 

10

.32.1

First Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2004,
    among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A.(22)

10

.32.2

Second Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of April 22, 2005, by
    and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A.(22)

10

.32.3

Third Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2005,
    by and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A(24)

10

.32.4

Fourth Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2006, by
    and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A 

10

.32.5

Fifth Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2006, by
    and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A  

10

.33

Continuing Guaranty, between
    Western Digital Corporation and General Electric Capital
    Corporation, dated as of April 7, 2001(8)

10

.34

Master Equipment Lease Agreement
    dated June 24, 2004 between CIT Technologies Corporation,
    doing business as CIT Systems Leasing, and Western Digital
    Technologies, Inc.(17)

21

Subsidiaries of Western Digital
    Corporation 

23

Consent of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm 

31

.1

Certification of Principal
    Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

31

.2

Certification of Principal
    Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32

.1

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002 

32

.2

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002 

Filed with this report. 

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
    to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to applicable rules of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Certain portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a
    confidential treatment request filed separately with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. 

99

Table of Contents   

100

Table of Contents   

101

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized.

WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION

By: 

/s/   Stephen
    D. Milligan 

Stephen D. Milligan

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: November 17, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
    Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Arif
    Shakeel  

Arif
    Shakeel

Chief Executive Officer (Principal
    Executive Officer), Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   John
    F. Coyne  

John
    F. Coyne

President, Chief Operating
    Officer, Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   Stephen
    D. Milligan  

Stephen
    D. Milligan

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

November 17, 2006

/s/   Joseph
    R. Carrillo  

Joseph
    R. Carrillo

Vice President and Corporate
    Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

November 17, 2006

/s/   Matthew
    E.
    Massengill  

Matthew
    E. Massengill

Chairman of the Board

November 17, 2006

/s/   Peter
    D. Behrendt  

Peter
    D. Behrendt

Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   Kathleen
    A. Cote  

Kathleen
    A. Cote

Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   Henry
    T. DeNero  

Henry
    T. DeNero

Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   William
    L. Kimsey  

William
    L. Kimsey

Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   Michael
    D. Lambert  

Michael
    D. Lambert

Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   Roger
    H. Moore  

Roger
    H. Moore

Director

November 17, 2006

/s/   Thomas
    E. Pardun  

Thomas
    E. Pardun

Director

November 17, 2006

102

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

2

.1

Asset Purchase Agreement between
    Chapter 7 Trustee for the Bankruptcy Estate of Read-Rite
    Corporation and RR (US) Acquisition Corporation, dated
    July 24, 2003, including Option Agreements to purchase all
    of the outstanding capital stock of Read-Rite International,
    Sunward Technologies International, and Read Rite Holding
    Company(14)

3

.1

Amended and Restated Certificate
    of Incorporation of Western Digital Corporation, as amended to
    date(26)

3

.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of
    Western Digital Corporation, as amended effective as of
    May 10, 2006(29)

4

.1

Rights Agreement between Western
    Digital Corporation and American Stock Transfer & Trust
    Company, as Rights Agent, dated as of April 6, 2001, which
    includes as Exhibit A thereto the Form of Right Certificate
    to be distributed to holders of Rights after the Distribution
    Date (as that term is defined in the Rights Agreement)(7)

4

.2

Form of Common Stock Certificate(1)

4

.3

Certificate of Designations of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Western
    Digital Corporation, dated April 6, 2001(7)

10

.1

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan, effective
    as of November 17, 2005(25)*

10

.1.1

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Option and Option Agreement   Executives, under the
    Western Digital Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive Plan(29)*

10

.1.2

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Agreement  
    Executives, under the Western Digital Corporation 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan(18)*

10

.1.3

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan
    Non-Employee Director Option Grant Program, effective as of
    November 17, 2005, and Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Option and Option Agreement   Non-Employee
    Directors(28) 

10

.1.4

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Performance Share Awards and Performance Share Award Agreement
    under the Western Digital Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(20)*

10

.1.5

Form of Notice of Stock Option
    Grant and Stock Option Agreement   Non-Executives,
    under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan(29)*

10

.1.6

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock
    Agreement   Non-Executives, under the Western
    Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan(18)*

10

.1.7

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Units and Stock Unit Award Agreement   Executives,
    under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004
    Performance Incentive Plan(27)*

10

.1.8

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Units and Stock Unit Award Agreement, under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(27)*

10

.1.9

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Long-Term Cash Award and Long-Term Cash Award
    Agreement   Executives, under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(27)*

10

.1.10

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Long-Term Cash Award and Long-Term Cash Award
    Agreement   Employees, under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive
    Plan(27)*

10

.2

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated Employee Stock Option Plan, as amended on
    November 5, 1998(3)*

10

.2.1

First Amendment to the Western
    Digital Corporation Employee Stock Option Plan, dated
    April 6, 2001(8)*

10

.2.2

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Options and Stock Option Agreement under the Western Digital
    Corporation Amended and Restated Employee Stock Option Plan as
    amended(22)*

10

.3

Western Digital Corporation
    Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan(5)*

10

.3.1

First Amendment to the Western
    Digital Corporation Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan, dated
    April 6, 2001(8)*

10

.3.2

Form of Notice of Grant of
    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Agreement under the
    Western Digital Corporation Broad Based Stock Incentive Plan as
    amended(22)*

10

.4

Western Digital Corporation
    Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
    Directors, effective as of May 25, 2000(8)

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.22

Western Digital Corporation
    Executive Severance Plan, effective February 16, 2006(27)*

10

.23

Form of Indemnity Agreement for
    Directors of Western Digital Corporation(11)

10

.24

Form of Indemnity Agreement for
    Officers of Western Digital Corporation(11)

10

.25

Sublease, dated as of
    September 23, 2003, by and between Advanced Logic Research,
    Inc. and Western Digital Corporation(17)

10

.25.1

First Amendment to Sublease, dated
    as of September 28, 2005, by and between Advanced Logic
    Research, Inc. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(24)

10

.26

Lease by and between Serrano Jack,
    L.L.C. and Western Digital Corporation, dated May 30,
    2000(6)

10

.27

Standard Industrial/Commercial
    Single-Tenant Lease and Addendum No. 1, dated May 1,
    2000, between One Morgan, LLC and Western Digital Corporation(16)

10

.28

Lease Agreement, dated
    June 3, 1996, together with First Amendment, between South
    Bay/Edenvale Associates and Western Digital Corporation(16)

10

.28.1

Second Amendment to Lease, dated
    as of April 6, 2004, between Trinet Essential Facilities
    XXVI, Inc. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(20)

10

.28.2

Third Amendment to Lease, dated as
    of March 1, 2005, between Trinet Essential Facilities XXVI,
    Inc. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(20)

10

.28.3

Fourth Amendment to Lease, dated
    as of December 21, 2005, between Trinet Essential
    Facilities XXVI, Inc. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(26)

10

.29

Volume Purchase Agreement, dated
    as of June 6, 2005, by and between Komag USA (Malaysia)
    Sdn., Komag, Incorporated, and Western Digital Technologies,
    Inc.(22) 

10

.29.1

Amendment No. 1 to Volume
    Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 22, 2005, by and
    between Komag USA (Malaysia) Sdn., Komag, Incorporated, and
    Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(22) 

10

.29.2

Amendment No. 2 to Volume
    Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2005, by and
    between Komag USA (Malaysia) Sdn., Komag, Incorporated, and
    Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(26) 

10

.29.3

Amendment No. 3 to Volume
    Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2006, by and
    between Komag USA (Malaysia) Sdn., Komag, Incorporated, and
    Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(26) 

10

.30

Supply Agreement, dated as of
    August 17, 2005, by and between Showa Denko K.K. and
    Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(22) 

10

.30.1

Amendment No. 1 to Supply
    Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2006, by and between Showa
    Denko K.K. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.  

10

.31

Supply Agreement for the
    Fabrication and Purchase of Semiconductor Products, dated
    June 13, 2002, among Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., Marvell
    Asia Pte. Ltd. and Western Digital Technologies, Inc.(13)(15)

10

.32

Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement, dated as of September 19, 2003, among Western
    Digital Technologies, Inc., the other credit parties identified
    therein, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A.(19) 

10

.32.1

First Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2004,
    among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A.(22)

10

.32.2

Second Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of April 22, 2005, by
    and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A.(22)

10

.32.3

Third Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2005,
    by and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A(24)

10

.32.4

Fourth Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2006, by
    and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A 

10

.32.5

Fifth Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2006, by
    and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Western Digital
    (Fremont), Inc., the other credit parties and guarantors
    thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation and Bank of
    America, N.A  

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.33

Continuing Guaranty, between
    Western Digital Corporation and General Electric Capital
    Corporation, dated as of April 7, 2001(8)

10

.34

Master Equipment Lease Agreement
    dated June 24, 2004 between CIT Technologies Corporation,
    doing business as CIT Systems Leasing, and Western Digital
    Technologies, Inc.(17)

21

Subsidiaries of Western Digital
    Corporation 

23

Consent of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm 

31

.1

Certification of Principal
    Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

31

.2

Certification of Principal
    Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32

.1

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002 

32

.2

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002 

Filed with this report. 

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
    to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to applicable rules of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Certain portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a
    confidential treatment request filed separately with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Table of Contents   

<EX-10.1.3>
 2
 a23647exv10w1w3.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.1.3

EXHIBIT 10.1.3

                           WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
              AMENDED AND RESTATED 2004 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN
                   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION GRANT PROGRAM

1. ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE. This Non-Employee Director Option Grant Program (this
"PROGRAM") is adopted under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated
2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "PLAN"). The purpose of this Program is to
promote the success of the Corporation and the interests of its stockholders by
providing members of the Board who are not officers or employees of the
Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries ("NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS") an opportunity
to acquire an ownership interest in the Corporation and more closely aligning
the interests of Non-Employee Directors and stockholders. Except as otherwise
expressly provided herein, the provisions of the Plan shall govern all awards
made pursuant to this Program. Capitalized terms are defined in the Plan if not
defined herein.

2. PARTICIPATION. Awards under this Program shall be made only to Non-Employee
Directors, shall be evidenced by award agreements substantially in the form of
Exhibit 1 hereto and shall be further subject to such other terms and conditions
set forth therein.

3. OPTION GRANTS.

     3.1 INITIAL AWARD FOR NEW DIRECTORS. Upon first being appointed or elected
     to the Board and subject to approval by the Board or the Administrator, a
     Non-Employee Director who has not previously served on the Board shall be
     granted a nonqualified stock option to purchase a number of shares of
     Common Stock that produces an approximate value for the option grant equal
     to $300,000 (using a Black-Scholes valuation as of the time of grant as
     determined in consultation with Company management); provided, however,
     that the Board or the Administrator, in its discretion, may increase or
     decrease the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the stock option.
     The date of grant of each such stock option will be the date on which such
     stock option is approved by the Board or the Administrator, which date
     shall coincide to the extent practicable with the date such Non-Employee
     Director is first appointed or elected to the Board.

     3.2 SUBSEQUENT AWARDS. Immediately following the Corporation's regular
     annual meeting of stockholders in each year during the term of the Plan
     commencing in 2005 and subject to approval by the Board or the
     Administrator, each Non-Employee Director then in office shall be granted a
     nonqualified stock option to purchase a number of shares of Common Stock
     that produces an approximate value for the option grant equal to $100,000
     (using a Black-Scholes valuation as of the time of grant as determined in
     consultation with Company Management); provided, however, that the Board or
     the Administrator, in its discretion, may increase or decrease the number
     of shares of Common Stock subject to the stock option. The date of grant of
     each such stock option will be the date on which such stock option is
     approved by the Board or the Administrator, which date shall coincide to
     the extent practicable with the date of the annual meeting of stockholders.
     An individual who was previously a member of the Board, who then ceased to
     be a member of the Board for any reason, and who then again

1

becomes a Non-Employee Director shall thereupon again become eligible to be
     granted stock options under this Section 3.2.

     3.3 OPTION PRICE. The purchase price per share of the Common Stock covered
     by each option granted pursuant to this Section 3 shall be 100 percent of
     the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of
     the option (the "AWARD DATE"). The exercise price of any option granted
     under this Section 3 shall be paid in full at the time of each purchase in
     cash or by check, in shares of Common Stock valued at their fair market
     value on the date of exercise of the option, or partly in such shares and
     partly in cash, or in any other manner authorized by the Administrator
     pursuant to Section 5.5 of the Plan; provided that any shares used in
     payment shall have been owned by the Non-Employee Director for at least six
     months prior to the date of exercise.

     3.4 TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS. Options granted pursuant to this Section 3 shall
     be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in Section 5.7 of the
     Plan. For purposes of clarity, the Administrator has not approved any
     transfer exceptions with respect to the options in accordance with Section
     5.7.2 of the Plan.

4. OPTION PERIOD AND EXERCISABILITY. Each option granted under Section 3 above
and all rights or obligations under this Program with respect to a particular
option shall expire ten years after the date of grant of such option and shall
be subject to earlier termination as provided below. Subject to Sections 5, 6
and 7 hereof, each option granted under Section 3 shall become exercisable as to
25% of the total number of shares subject thereto on the first anniversary of
the date of grant of the option and as to an additional 6.25% of the total
number of shares subject thereto at the end of each of the next 12 three-month
periods thereafter.

5. TERMINATION OF DIRECTORSHIP. Subject to the maximum ten-year term of the
option and subject to earlier termination pursuant to Section 7 below, if a
Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the Board for any reason, the
following rules shall apply with respect to any option granted to the
Non-Employee Director pursuant to Section 3 above (the last day that the
Director is a member of the Board is, except as otherwise provided below,
referred to as the Director's "SEVERANCE DATE"):

     -    other than as expressly provided below in this Section 5, (a) the
          Non-Employee Director will have until the date that is one (1) year
          after his or her Severance Date to exercise such option (or portion
          thereof) to the extent that it was vested on the Severance Date, (b)
          such option, to the extent not vested on the Severance Date, shall
          terminate on the Severance Date, and (c) such option, to the extent
          exercisable for the one-year period following the Severance Date and
          not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of
          business on the last day of the one-year period;

     -    if the Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the Board due to
          his or her Retirement (as defined below) and the Non-Employee Director
          has served as a member of the Board of Directors for at least twelve
          (12) continuous months following the grant date of such option, (a)
          the Non-Employee Director will have until the date that is three (3)
          years after his or her Severance Date to exercise

2

such option, (b) such option, to the extent not otherwise vested on
          the Severance Date, shall automatically become fully vested as of the
          Severance Date, and (c) such option, to the extent exercisable for the
          three-year period following the Severance Date and not exercised
          during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the
          last day of the three-year period;

provided, however, that if the Board or the Administrator determines that any
such Non-Employee Director who has Retired renders services as an employee,
director, consultant, contractor or otherwise to a competitor of the Corporation
or one of its Subsidiaries at any time during such three-year period, then any
such option shall immediately terminate to the extent not exercised as of the
date the Board or the Administrator makes such determination. In addition, in
such event the Corporation shall have the right to recover any profits realized
by such Retired Non-Employee Director as a result of any exercise of such option
during the six-month period prior to the date such Non-Employee Director
commenced providing such services to a competitor.

     For purposes of this Section 5, the term "RETIREMENT" (which term shall
include "Retired") shall mean the cessation of a director's services as a member
of the Board due to his or her voluntary resignation at any time after such
director has served as a member of the Board for at least forty-eight (48)
months.

     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 5, if a Non-Employee
Director ceases to be a member of the Board (regardless of the reason) but,
immediately thereafter, is employed by the Corporation or one of its
Subsidiaries, such director's Severance Date shall not be the date the director
ceases to be a member of the Board but instead shall be the last day that the
director is either or both (1) a member of the Board and/or (2) employed by the
Corporation or a Subsidiary.

6. ADJUSTMENTS. Options granted under this Program shall be subject to
adjustment as provided in Section 7.1 of the Plan, but only to the extent that
such adjustment is consistent with adjustments to options held by persons other
than executive officers or directors of the Corporation (to the extent that
persons other than executive officers or directors of the Corporation then hold
options). The grant levels reflected in Section 3 above shall be automatically
adjusted upon the record date for any stock split, reverse stock split, or stock
dividend to give effect to such change in capitalization unless otherwise
provided by the Board or the Administrator in the circumstances, and may be
adjusted in the discretion of the Board or the Administrator in any other
circumstances contemplated by Section 7.1.

7. ACCELERATION AND POSSIBLE EARLY TERMINATION. If a Change in Control Event (as
such term is defined in the Plan) occurs and in connection with such Change in
Control Event a Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the Board, each
option granted under Section 3 above to such Non-Employee Director, to the
extent such option is then outstanding, shall become immediately exercisable and
vested in full. For purposes of this Section 7, but without limitation, a
director will be deemed to have ceased to be a member of the Board in connection
with a Change in Control Event if such director (a) is removed by or resigns
upon the request of any Person exercising practical voting control over the
Corporation following such Change in Control Event or a person acting upon
authority or at the instruction of such Person, or (b) is

3

willing or able to continue as a member of the Board but is not re-elected to or
retained as a member of the Board by the Corporation's stockholders at the
stockholder vote or consent action for the election of directors that precedes
and is taken in connection with, or next follows, such Change in Control Event.

     Each option granted under this Program shall be subject to adjustment and
termination pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan.

8. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SHARES; AMENDMENT; ADMINISTRATION. If option grants
otherwise required pursuant to this Program would otherwise exceed any
applicable share limit under Section 4.2 of the Plan, such grants shall be made
pro-rata to directors entitled to such grants. The Board or the Administrator
may from time to time amend this Program without stockholder approval; provided
that no such amendment shall materially and adversely affect the rights of a
Non-Employee Director as to an option granted under this Program before the
adoption of such amendment. This Program does not limit the authority of the
Board or the Administrator to make other, discretionary award grants to
Non-Employee Directors pursuant to the Plan. The Plan Administrator's power and
authority to construe and interpret the Plan and awards thereunder pursuant to
Section 3.1 of the Plan shall extend to this Program and awards granted
hereunder. As provided in Section 3.2 of the Plan, any action taken by, or
inaction of, the Administrator relating or pursuant to this Program and within
its authority or under applicable law shall be within the absolute discretion of
that entity or body and shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons.

                                       ###

As amended (Sections 3.1 and 3.2) and restated November 17, 2005

As amended (Section 5) November 9, 2006

4

EXHIBIT 1

(WESTERN DIGITAL(R) LOGO)

Western Digital Corporation 20511 Lake Forest Drive
Lake Forest, California 92630 Telephone 949-672-7000

NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION
AND OPTION AGREEMENT - NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

< > < > < >
< >
< >
< >
< >, < > < >

________________________________________________________________________________

Western Digital Corporation (the "Corporation") has granted to you (the
"Participant"), effective on the Date of Grant set forth below, a nonqualified
option to purchase shares of the Corporation's Common Stock (the "Option") as
follows:

Grant Number                   < >
Date of Grant                  < >
Option Price per Share(1)     $< >
Number of Shares Granted(1)    < >
Expiration Date(2)

1. OPTION SUBJECT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED 2004 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN. The
Option was granted pursuant to the Non-Employee Director Option Grant Program
(the "Program"), adopted under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and
Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Option is subject to
the terms and conditions of this Notice, the Program and the Plan. By accepting
the Option, you are agreeing to the terms of the Option as set forth in these
documents. A copy of each of these documents has been provided to you. If you
need another copy of any of these documents, or if you would like to confirm
that you have the most recent version, you may obtain another copy in the
Company Library on the E*TRADE Stock Plans web site. The documents are also
available on the Western Digital Intranet site under Legal.

You should read the Program, the Plan, the Prospectus for the Plan and this
Notice. The Program and the Plan are each incorporated into (made a part of)
this Notice by this reference. To the extent any information in this Notice, the
Prospectus for the Plan, or other information provided by the Corporation
conflicts with the Program and/or the Plan, the Program or the Plan, as
applicable, shall control. Capitalized terms not defined herein have the
meanings set forth in the Plan.

You do not have to accept the Option. If you do not agree to the terms of the
Option, you should promptly return this Notice to the Western Digital
Corporation Stock Plans Administrator.

- ----------
(1)  The number of shares subject to the Option and the per-share exercise price
     of the Option are subject to adjustment under Section 6 of the Program and
     Section 7.1 of the Plan (for example, and without limitation, in connection
     with stock splits).

(2)  The Option is subject to early termination under Sections 5 and 7 of the
     Program.

Unless otherwise expressly provided in other sections of this Notice, provisions
of the Plan that confer discretionary authority on the Board or the
Administrator do not and shall not be deemed to create any rights in the
Participant unless such rights are expressly set forth herein or are otherwise
in the sole discretion of the Board or the Administrator so conferred by
appropriate action of the Board or the Administrator under the Plan after the
grant date of the Option.

2. OPTION AGREEMENT. This Notice constitutes the Option Agreement with respect
to the Option pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan.

3. TYPE OF STOCK OPTION. The Option is not intended to qualify as an incentive
stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

4. VESTING. Subject to earlier termination in accordance with Section 5, the
Option shall vest and become exercisable in percentage installments of the
aggregate number of shares subject to the Option as set forth in this Notice and
Section 4 of the Program. The Option may be exercised only to the extent it is
vested and exercisable. To the extent that the Option is vested and exercisable,
the Participant has the right to exercise the Option (to the extent not
previously exercised), and such right shall continue, until the expiration or
earlier termination of the Option as provided in Section 5. Fractional share
interests shall be disregarded, but may be cumulated.

The vesting schedule requires continued service through each applicable vesting
date as a condition to the vesting of the applicable installment of the Option
and the rights and benefits under this Option Agreement. Service for only a
portion of the vesting period with respect to a vesting installment, even if
services are provided for a substantial portion of that period, will not entitle
the Participant to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination
of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of services as provided
under Section 5 of the Program or under the Plan.

5. EXPIRATION OF OPTION. The Option shall expire and the Participant shall have
no further rights with respect thereto upon the earliest to occur of (a) the
termination of the Option in connection with a termination of the director's
services as provided in Section 5 of the Program, (b) the termination of the
Option as provided in Section 7.4 of the Plan, or (c) the Expiration Date set
forth in this Notice. The Option may not be exercised at any time after a
termination or expiration of the Option.

6. EXERCISE OF OPTION. The Option shall be exercisable by the delivery to the
Secretary of the Corporation (or such other person as the Administrator may
require pursuant to such administrative exercise procedures as the Administrator
may implement from time to time) of:

     -    a written notice stating the number of shares of Common Stock to be
          purchased pursuant to the Option or by the completion of such other
          administrative exercise procedures as the Administrator may require
          from time to time,

     -    payment in full for the purchase price (the per-share exercise price
          of the Option multiplied by the number of shares to be purchased) in
          cash, check or by electronic funds transfer to the Corporation, or
          (subject to compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations
          and listing requirements and further subject to such rules as the
          Administrator may adopt as to any non-cash payment) in shares of
          Common Stock already owned by the Participant, valued at their fair
          market value on the exercise date, provided, however, that any shares
          initially acquired upon exercise of a stock option or otherwise from
          the Corporation must have been owned by the Participant for at least
          six (6) months before the date of such exercise; and

-    any written statements or agreements required by the Administrator
          pursuant to Section 8.1 of the Plan.

The Administrator also may, but is not required to, authorize a non-cash payment
alternative by notice and third party payment in such manner as may be
authorized by the Administrator.

7. NONTRANSFERABILITY. The Option and any other rights of the Participant under
this Option Agreement, the Program or the Plan are nontransferable and
exercisable only by the Participant, except as set forth in Section 5.7 of the
Plan. For purposes of clarity, the Administrator has not authorized any transfer
exceptions as contemplated by Section 5.7.2 of the Plan.

8. NO SERVICE COMMITMENT. Nothing contained in this Option Agreement, the
Program or the Plan constitutes an employment or service commitment by the
Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, confers upon the Participant any right
to remain in service to the Corporation or any Subsidiary, interferes in any way
with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary at any time to terminate
such service, or affects the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to
increase or decrease the Participant's other compensation.

9. RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER. Neither the Participant nor any beneficiary or other
person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any right, title,
interest or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option
except as to such shares, if any, as shall have been actually issued to such
person and recorded in such person's name following the exercise of the Option
or any portion thereof.

10. NOTICES. Any notice to be given under the terms of this Option Agreement
shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal office to
the attention of the Secretary, and to the Participant at the address last
reflected on the Corporation's records, or at such other address as either party
may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be
delivered in person or shall be enclosed in a properly sealed envelope addressed
as aforesaid, registered or certified, and deposited (postage and registry or
certification fee prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly
maintained by the United States Government. Any such notice shall be given only
when received, but if the Participant is no longer a member of the Board of
Directors, shall be deemed to have been duly given five business days after the
date mailed in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.

11. ARBITRATION. Any controversy arising out of or relating to this Option
Agreement, the Program and/or the Plan, their enforcement or interpretation, or
because of an alleged breach, default, or misrepresentation in connection with
any of their provisions, or any other controversy or claim arising out of or
related to the Option or the Participant's employment, including, but not
limited to, any state or federal statutory claims, shall be submitted to
arbitration in Orange County, California, before a sole arbitrator selected from
Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services, Inc., Orange, California, or its
successor ("JAMS"), or if JAMS is no longer able to supply the arbitrator, such
arbitrator shall be selected from the American Arbitration Association, and
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of California Code of Civil
Procedure Sections 1280 et seq. as The exclusive forum for the resolution of
such dispute; provided, however, that provisional injunctive relief may, but
need not, be sought by either party to this Option Agreement in a court of law
while arbitration proceedings are pending, and any provisional injunctive relief
granted by such court shall remain effective until the matter is finally
determined by the arbitrator. Final resolution of any dispute through
arbitration may include any remedy or relief which the arbitrator deems just and
equitable, including any and all remedies provided by applicable state or
federal statutes. At the conclusion of the arbitration, the arbitrator shall
issue a written decision that sets forth the essential findings and conclusions
upon which the arbitrator's award or decision is based. Any award or relief
granted by the arbitrator hereunder shall be final and binding on

the parties hereto and may be enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction.
The parties acknowledge and agree that they are hereby waiving any rights to
trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim brought by either of the
parties against the other in connection with any matter whatsoever arising out
of or in any way connected with any of the matters referenced in the first
sentence above. The parties agree that Corporation shall be responsible for
payment of the forum costs of any arbitration hereunder, including the
arbitrator's fee. The parties further agree that in any proceeding with respect
to such matters, each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and costs (other
than forum costs associated with the arbitration) incurred by it or him or her
in connection with the resolution of the dispute. By accepting the Option, the
Participant consents to all of the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement
(including, without limitation, this Section 11).

12. GOVERNING LAW. This Option Agreement shall be interpreted and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to conflict of
law principles thereunder) and applicable federal law.

13. SEVERABILITY. If the arbitrator selected in accordance with Section 11 or a
court of competent jurisdiction determines that any portion of this Option
Agreement, the Program or the Plan is in violation of any statute or public
policy, then only the portions of this Option Agreement, the Program or the
Plan, as applicable, which are found to violate such statute or public policy
shall be stricken, and all portions of this Option Agreement, the Program and
the Plan which are not found to violate any statute or public policy shall
continue in full force and effect. Furthermore, it is the parties' intent that
any order striking any portion of this Option Agreement, the Program and/or the
Plan should modify the stricken terms as narrowly as possible to give as much
effect as possible to the intentions of the parties hereunder.

14. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Option Agreement, the Program and the Plan together
constitute the entire agreement and supersede all prior understandings and
agreements, written or oral, of the parties hereto with respect to the subject
matter hereof. The Plan, the Program and this Option Agreement may be amended
pursuant to Section 8.6 of the Plan. Such amendment must be in writing and
signed by the Corporation. The Corporation may, however, unilaterally waive any
provision hereof in writing to the extent such waiver does not adversely affect
the interests of the Participant hereunder, but no such waiver shall operate as
or be construed to be a subsequent waiver of the same provision or a waiver of
any other provision hereof.

15. SECTION HEADINGS. The section headings of this Option Agreement are for
convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any
provision hereof.

</EX-10.1.3>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 a23647exv10w7.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.7

EXHIBIT 10.7

                           WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
              AMENDED AND RESTATED 2004 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN
            NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT GRANT PROGRAM

1. ESTABLISHMENT. The Corporation maintains the Western Digital Corporation
Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Unit Plan, which plan is hereby amended
and restated in its entirety effective as of November 17, 2005 (the "EFFECTIVE
DATE") as set forth herein and is hereby renamed the Non-Employee Director
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Program (the "PROGRAM"). This amendment and
restatement of the Program is effective as to grants on and after the Effective
Date; awards granted under the Program prior to the Effective Date are governed
by the applicable terms of the Program as in effect on the date of grant of the
award. The Program has been restated as an Appendix to, and any shares of Common
Stock issued with respect to awards granted under the Program on and after the
Effective Date shall be charged against the applicable share limits of, the
Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan
(the "PLAN"). Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the provisions of
the Plan shall govern all awards made pursuant to the Program. Capitalized terms
are defined in the Plan if not defined herein.

2. PURPOSE. The purpose of the Program is to promote the success of the
Corporation and the interests of its stockholders by providing members of the
Board who are not officers or employees of the Corporation or one of its
Subsidiaries ("NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS") an opportunity to acquire an ownership
interest in the Corporation and more closely aligning the interests of
Non-Employee Directors and stockholders.

3. PARTICIPATION. An award of Stock Units (a "STOCK UNIT AWARD") under the
Program shall be made only to Non-Employee Directors, shall be evidenced by a
Notice of Award of Stock Units substantially in the form attached as Exhibit 1
hereto and shall be further subject to such other terms and conditions set forth
therein. As used in the Program, the term "STOCK UNIT" shall mean a non-voting
unit of measurement which is deemed for bookkeeping purposes to be equivalent to
one outstanding share of Common Stock (subject to adjustment as provided in
Section 7.1 of the Plan) solely for purposes of the Program. Stock Units shall
be used solely as a device for the determination of the number of shares of
Common Stock to eventually be delivered to a Non-Employee Director if Stock
Units held by such Non-Employee Director vest pursuant to Section 6 or Section
8. Stock Units shall not be treated as property or as a trust fund of any kind.
Stock Units granted to a Non-Employee Director pursuant to the Program shall be
credited to an unfunded bookkeeping account maintained by the Corporation on
behalf of the Non-Employee Director (a "PROGRAM ACCOUNT").

4. ANNUAL STOCK UNIT AWARDS.

     4.1 ANNUAL AWARDS. On each January 1 during the term of the Plan commencing
     on January 1, 2006, each Non-Employee Director then in office shall be
     granted automatically (without any action by the Board or the
     Administrator) a Stock Unit Award with respect to a number (rounded down to
     the nearest whole number) of Stock Units equal to (i) $100,000, divided by
     (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the applicable
     January 1 (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 7.1 of the Plan).

1

An individual who was previously a member of the Board, who then ceased to
     be a member of the Board for any reason, and who then again becomes a
     Non-Employee Director shall thereupon again become eligible to be granted
     Stock Units under this Section 4.1.

     4.2 INITIAL AWARD FOR NEW DIRECTORS. Upon first being appointed or elected
     to the Board at any time after January 1, 2006, a Non-Employee Director who
     has not previously served on the Board shall be granted automatically
     (without any action by the Board or the Administrator) a Stock Unit Award
     with respect to a number of Stock Units equal to (i) the number of Stock
     Units in the Annual Award immediately preceding the date such Non-Employee
     Director is first appointed or elected to the Board, divided by (ii) 365,
     multiplied by (iii) the number of days from the date such Non-Employee
     Director is first appointed or elected to the Board to the immediately
     following January 1.

     4.3 TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS. Stock Units granted pursuant to this Section 4
     shall be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in Section 5.7 of
     the Plan. For purposes of clarity, the Administrator has not approved any
     transfer exceptions with respect to Stock Units granted pursuant to the
     Program in accordance with Section 5.7.2 of the Plan.

5. DIVIDEND AND VOTING RIGHTS.

     5.1 LIMITATION OF RIGHTS ASSOCIATED WITH STOCK UNITS. A Non-Employee
     Director shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Corporation, no
     dividend rights (except as expressly provided in Section 5.2 with respect
     to dividend equivalent rights) and no voting rights, with respect to Stock
     Units granted pursuant to the Program and any shares of Common Stock
     underlying or issuable in respect of such Stock Units until such shares of
     Common Stock are actually issued to and held of record by the Non-Employee
     Director. No adjustments will be made for dividends or other rights of a
     holder for which the record date is prior to the date of issuance of the
     stock certificate.

     5.2 DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS. As of any date that the Corporation pays a
     dividend (other than in shares of Common Stock) upon issued and outstanding
     Common Stock, or makes a distribution (other than in shares of Common
     Stock) with respect thereto, a Non-Employee Director's Program Account
     shall be credited with an additional number (rounded down to the nearest
     whole number) of Stock Units equal to (i) the "fair value" of any dividend
     (or other distribution) with respect to one share of Common Stock,
     multiplied by (ii) the number of unvested Stock Units credited to the
     Non-Employee Director's Program Account immediately prior to such dividend
     or distribution, divided by (iii) the Fair Market Value of a share of
     Common Stock on the date of payment of such dividend or distribution. In
     the case of a cash dividend or distribution, the "fair value" thereof shall
     be the amount of such cash, and, in the case of any other dividend or
     distribution (other than in shares of Common Stock), the "fair value"
     thereof shall be such amount as shall be determined in good faith by the
     Administrator. Stock Units credited pursuant to the foregoing provisions of
     this Section 5.2 shall be subject to the same vesting, payment and other
     terms, conditions and restrictions as the original Stock Units to which
     they relate. No adjustment shall be made pursuant to Section 7.1 of the
     Plan as to Stock Units granted pursuant to the Program in connection with
     any dividend

2

(other than in shares of Common Stock) or distribution (other than in
     shares of Common Stock) for which dividend equivalents are credited
     pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.2. Stock Units
     granted pursuant to the Program shall otherwise be subject to adjustment
     pursuant to Section 7.1 of the Plan (for example, and without limitation,
     in connection with a split or reverse split of the outstanding Common
     Stock).

6. VESTING. Subject to Section 8 hereof and Section 7 of the Plan, a Stock Unit
Award granted to a Non-Employee Director pursuant to the Program (whether
pursuant to Section 4 or Section 5.2) shall vest and become payable as to 100%
of the total number of Stock Units subject thereto on the third anniversary of
the date of grant of the Stock Unit Award.

7. CONTINUATION OF SERVICES. The vesting schedule requires continued service
through each applicable vesting date as a condition to the vesting of the
applicable installment of a Stock Unit Award and the rights and benefits under
the Program. Partial service, even if substantial, during any vesting period
will not entitle a Non-Employee Director to any proportionate vesting or avoid
or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination
of services as provided in Section 8 below. Nothing contained in the Program
constitutes a continued service commitment by the Corporation, confers upon a
Non-Employee Director any right to remain in service to the Corporation,
interferes with the right of the Corporation at any time to terminate such
service, or affects the right of the Corporation to increase or decrease a
Non-Employee Director's other compensation.

8. TERMINATION OF DIRECTORSHIP. Subject to earlier termination pursuant to
Section 7 of the Plan, if a Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the
Board for any reason, the following rules shall apply with respect to any Stock
Units granted to the Non-Employee Director pursuant to Section 4 above (the last
day that the Non-Employee Director is a member of the Board is, except as
otherwise provided below, referred to as the Non-Employee Director's "SEVERANCE
DATE"):

     -    other than as expressly provided below in this Section 8, (a)
          one-third (1/3) of the number of Stock Units granted to the
          Non-Employee Director pursuant to the Program within the period
          commencing twenty-four (24) months prior to, and ending twelve (12)
          months prior to, the Non-Employee Director's Severance Date shall
          immediately vest and become payable; (b) two-thirds (2/3) of the
          number of Stock Units granted to the Non-Employee Director pursuant to
          the Program within the period commencing thirty-six (36) months prior
          to, and ending twenty-four (24) months prior to, the Non-Employee
          Director's Severance Date shall immediately vest and become payable;
          and (c) all Stock Units granted to a Non-Employee Director pursuant to
          the Program that have not vested as of, or do not vest upon, the
          Non-Employee Director's Severance Date, shall immediately terminate
          without payment therefor;

     -    if the Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the Board due to
          his or her death or Disability (as defined below), all Stock Units
          granted to the Non-Employee Director pursuant to the Program shall
          immediately vest and become payable;

3

-    if the Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the Board due to
          his or her Retirement (as defined below), all Stock Units subject to a
          Stock Unit Award granted to the Non-Employee Director pursuant to the
          Program shall immediately vest and become payable, provided that the
          Non-Employee Director has served as a member of the Board for at least
          twelve (12) continuous months following the grant date of such Stock
          Unit Award;

     -    if the Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the Board due to
          his or her Removal, all then-unvested Stock Units granted to the
          Non-Employee Director pursuant to the Program shall immediately
          terminate without payment therefor.

     For purposes of this Section 8, the term "DISABILITY" shall mean a period
of disability during which a Non-Employee Director qualified for permanent
disability benefits under the Corporation's long-term disability plan, or, if
the Non-Employee Director does not participate in such a plan, a period of
disability during which the Non-Employee Director would have qualified for
permanent disability benefits under such a plan had the Non-Employee Director
been a participant in such a plan, as determined in the sole discretion of the
Administrator. If the Corporation does not sponsor such a plan, or discontinues
to sponsor such a plan, Disability shall be determined by the Administrator in
its sole discretion. For purposes of this Section 8, the term "RETIREMENT" shall
mean the cessation of a director's services as a member of the Board due to his
or her voluntary resignation at any time after such director has served as a
member of the Board for at least forty-eight (48) months. For purposes of this
Section 8, the term "REMOVAL" shall mean the removal of a Non-Employee Director
from the Board, with or without cause, in accordance with the Corporation's
Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws or the Delaware General Corporation Law.

     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 8, if a Non-Employee
Director ceases to be a member of the Board (regardless of the reason) but,
immediately thereafter, is employed by the Corporation or one of its
Subsidiaries, such director's Severance Date shall not be the date the director
ceases to be a member of the Board but instead shall be the last day that the
director is either or both (1) a member of the Board and/or (2) employed by the
Corporation or a Subsidiary.

9. TIMING AND MANNER OF PAYMENT OF STOCK UNITS. Except as provided in Section 10
below, on or within fifteen (15) business days following the vesting of any
Stock Units granted to a Non-Employee Director pursuant to the Program (whether
pursuant to Section 6 or Section 8 hereof or Section 7 of the Plan), the
Corporation shall deliver to the Non-Employee Director a number of shares of
Common Stock (either by delivering one or more certificates for such shares or
by entering such shares in book entry form, as determined by the Corporation in
its sole discretion) equal to the number of Stock Units that vest on the
applicable vesting date, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 7 of the
Plan; provided, however, that, to the extent permitted by the Corporation's
Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan, as it may be amended from time
to time (the "DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN"), a Non-Employee Director may elect to
defer receipt of any or all shares of Common Stock payable with respect to Stock
Units that vest pursuant to the Program. Such elections shall be made, and any
such deferral shall be effected and administered, in accordance with the
Deferred Compensation Plan. The Corporation's

4

obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock with respect to vested Stock Units
is subject to the condition precedent that the Non-Employee Director (or other
person entitled under the Plan to receive any shares with respect to the vested
Stock Units) deliver to the Corporation any representations or other documents
or assurances required pursuant to Section 8.1 of the Plan. A Non-Employee
Director shall have no further rights with respect to any Stock Units that are
paid or that are terminated pursuant to Section 8 hereof or Section 7 of the
Plan, and such Stock Units shall be removed from the Non-Employee Director's
Program Account upon the date of such payment or termination.

10. CHANGE IN CONTROL EVENTS. A Stock Unit Award may vest and become payable in
connection with the occurrence of certain events involving the Corporation as
provided for in Section 7 of the Plan; provided, however, that, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in the Program or the Plan, if the event giving rise to
such accelerated vesting is not also a "change in the ownership or effective
control" of the Corporation for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, then
payment with respect to such vested Stock Unit Award shall not be made until
such Stock Unit Award would have become vested and payable without regard to
this Section 10 or Section 7 of the Plan.

11. PLAN PROVISIONS; MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SHARES; AMENDMENT; ADMINISTRATION. Stock
Units granted under the Program shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the
Plan (including, without limitation, the provisions of Section 7 of the Plan).
If Stock Unit Awards otherwise required pursuant to the Program would otherwise
exceed any applicable share limit under Section 4.2 of the Plan, such grants
shall be made pro-rata to Non-Employee Directors entitled to such grants. The
Board may from time to time amend the Program without stockholder approval;
provided that no such amendment shall materially and adversely affect the rights
of a Non-Employee Director as to a Stock Unit Award granted under the Program
before the adoption of such amendment. The Board may amend, modify, suspend or
terminate outstanding Stock Unit Awards; provided, however, that outstanding
Stock Unit Awards shall not be amended, modified, suspended or terminated so as
to impair any rights of the recipient of the award without the consent of such
recipient. If any such amendment or modification to an outstanding Stock Unit
Award has the result of accelerating the vesting of such award, then any
election that had been made to defer receipt of payment with respect to any or
all of the Stock Units subject to the award pursuant to the Deferred
Compensation Plan shall be disregarded. The Program does not limit the Board's
authority to make other, discretionary award grants to Non-Employee Directors
pursuant to the Plan. The Plan Administrator's power and authority to construe
and interpret the Plan and awards thereunder pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Plan
shall extend to the Program and awards granted hereunder. As provided in Section
3.2 of the Plan, any action taken by, or inaction of, the Administrator relating
or pursuant to the Program and within its authority or under applicable law
shall be within the absolute discretion of that entity or body and shall be
conclusive and binding upon all persons.

                                       ###

As amended (Section 8) November 9, 2006

5

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.9>
 4
 a23647exv10w9.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.9

Exhibit 10.9

                           Western Digital Corporation
                      Summary of Compensation Arrangements
                                       for
                     Named Executive Officers and Directors

NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

This summary sheet reports current base salaries and certain other compensation
for the current executive officers of Western Digital Corporation (the
"Company") who will be named in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's
Proxy Statement that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
in connection with the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Named
Executive Officers").

Current Base
Named Executive Officer                                                   Salary
- -----------------------                                                ------------
                                                                      
Matthew E. Massengill*                                                   $800,000
Chairman of the Board

Arif Shakeel*                                                            $800,000
Chief Executive Officer

John F. Coyne**                                                          $650,000
President, Chief Operating Officer

Stephen D. Milligan                                                      $450,000
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Hossein Moghadam***                                                      $400,000
Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

Raymond M. Bukaty                                                        $400,000
Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and Secretary

*    On August 25, 2005, the Company entered into employment agreements with Mr.
     Massengill and Mr. Shakeel, effective October 1, 2005, as disclosed in Item
     1.01 of the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities
     and Exchange Commission on August 26, 2005, which is incorporated herein by
     reference. On October 31, 2006, the Company entered into an amendment to
     the employment agreement with Mr. Shakeel, as disclosed in Item 1.01 of the
     Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and
     Exchange Commission on November 2, 2006, which is incorporated herein by
     reference.

**   The following applies with respect to Mr. Coyne's compensation by the
     Company:

     -    On September 21, 2004, the Company entered into a Long-Term Retention
          Agreement - Cash with Mr. Coyne, which was filed as an exhibit to the
          Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and
          Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006, which is
          incorporated herein by reference.

     -    On May 14, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
          (the "Board") granted to Mr. Coyne a performance cash award as
          disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
          filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2006,
          which is incorporated herein by reference. Payout of the cash award is
          dependent upon the Company's achievement of financial goals
          established by the Compensation Committee of the Board on September
          14, 2006, as disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Company's Current Report on
          Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
          September 20, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference.

     -    On October 31, 2006, the Company entered into an employment agreement
          with Mr. Coyne, as disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Company's Current
          Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
          on November 2, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference.

     -    Also on October 31, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board
          granted to Mr. Coyne two performance cash awards, as disclosed in Item
          1.01 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the
          Securities and Exchange Commission on November 2, 2006, which is
          incorporated herein by reference. Payout of these two cash awards is
          dependent upon the Company's achievement of financial goals
          established by the Compensation Committee of the Board on November 8,
          2006, as disclosed in Item 5.02 of the Company's Current Report on
          Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November
          14, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference.

***  The following applies with respect to Dr. Moghadam's compensation by the
     Company:

     -    On September 21, 2004, the Company entered into a Long-Term Retention
          Agreement - Cash, with Dr. Moghadam, which was filed as an exhibit to
          the Company's annual report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission on September 14, 2005, which is incorporated
          herein by reference.

     -    On February 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board granted
          to Dr. Moghadam a long-term cash award that is payable dependent upon
          the Company's achievement of pre-determined financial goals
          established by the Compensation Committee of the Board on February 15,
          2006, as disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Company's Current Report on
          Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February
          22, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference.

          The Named Executive Officers are eligible to receive cash bonus awards
          for the first half of fiscal year 2007 as disclosed in Item 1.01 of
          the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission on June 23, 2006, which is incorporated herein
          by reference. In addition, on November 9, 2006, the Compensation
          Committee of the Board established the performance goals for the cash
          bonus awards that the Named Executive Officers are eligible to receive
          for the second half of fiscal year 2007, as disclosed in Item 5.02 of
          the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission on November 14, 2006, which is incorporated
          herein by reference.

The Named Executive Officers are entitled to participate in various Company
plans as set forth in the exhibits to the Company's filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

     In addition, the Named Executive Officers may be eligible to receive
perquisites and other personal benefits as disclosed in the Company's Proxy
Statement.

DIRECTORS

     The Company's non-employee directors currently receive an annual retainer
of $75,000 in January, or if they join the Board at a later date, they receive a
proportion of the annual fee corresponding to the period for which they serve.
The chairman of the audit committee of the Board receives an annual retainer of
$10,000 and the chairman of each of the Governance Committee and the
Compensation Committee receives an annual retainer of $5,000. All audit
committee members, including the chairman, receive an annual retainer of $5,000.
Non-employee directors are reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
incurred in attending Board and committee meetings, but directors do not receive
separate payments for attendance at Board and committee meetings.

     Messrs. Massengill, Shakeel and Coyne, who are employees of the Company, do
not receive any compensation for their service on the Board or any Board
committee.

     At a Board meeting held on August 5, 2005, the Board approved the payment
of $2,500 per day (or time aggregating a full work day) for time spent by any
independent director outside of board or committee meetings assisting with
specified succession planning matters.

     The Company's non-employee directors are entitled to participate in various
other Company plans as set forth in the exhibits to the Company's filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.18.2>
 5
 a23647exv10w18w2.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.8.2

Exhibit 10.18.2

                      LONG-TERM RETENTION AGREEMENT - CASH

     This Long-Term Retention Agreement-Cash (the "Agreement") is made and
entered into effective as of September 21, 2004 (the "Grant Date") by and
between Western Digital Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and John F. Coyne
(the "Executive") dated as of the Grant Date.

                                   WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, the Executive is employed by Western Digital Technologies, Inc., a
subsidiary of the Company, in a key position and the Company desires the
Executive to remain in such service;

     WHEREAS, to give the Executive added incentive to advance the interests of
the Company, the Company wishes to grant the Executive a cash award under the
terms and conditions established by Company;

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises, the parties agree that
the following shall constitute the agreement between the Company and the
Executive:

     1. DEFINITIONS.

     As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
thereto below:

          (a) "ACCOUNT" means a bookkeeping account maintained by the Company
for this Award to track vesting and value pursuant to Section 4.

          (b) "ADMINISTRATOR" means the Committee.

          (c) "BOARD" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

          (d) "CASH AWARD" means the commitment of the Company to make payments
in cash under this Agreement to the Executive in amounts determined in
accordance with Section 4.

          (e) "CHANGE OF CONTROL" has the meaning set forth in the Company's
Change of Control Severance Plan.

          (f) "CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE PLAN" means the Company's Amended and
Restated Change of Control Severance Plan.

          (g) "COMMITTEE" means the Compensation Committee of the Board
consisting solely of two (2) or more Non-employee Directors.

          (h) "COMPANY" means Western Digital Corporation, a Delaware
corporation, and its subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context otherwise
requires.

(i) "DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN" means the Company's Amended and
Restated Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time, or any
successor deferred compensation plan adopted by the Company.

          (j) "NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR" means a director who is both a
"non-employee director" as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and an "outside director" within the meaning of Section
162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

          (k) "PAYMENT AMOUNT" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.5.

          (l) "SUB-ACCOUNT" means a First Sub-Account, Second Sub-Account, or
Third Sub-Account making up a portion of an Account as described in Section 3.1.

     2. AWARD.

          2.1 Award Terms. The Company hereby grants to the Executive a Cash
Award of $300,000.00, subject to vesting and termination as set forth in Section
4.

          2.2 Continued Employment. The grant of a Cash Award to the Executive
pursuant to this Agreement does not give the Executive any right to be retained
in the employ of the Company; and the right and power of the Company to dismiss
or discharge the Executive, with or without cause, for any reason, is
specifically reserved. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to alter the
at-will nature of Executive's employment.

          2.3 No Property Rights. The grant of a Cash Award to the Executive
pursuant to this Agreement shall not be deemed the grant of a property interest
in any assets of the Company. The Cash Award evidences only a general obligation
of the Company to comply with the terms and conditions of the Agreement and make
payments in accordance with the Agreement from the assets of the Company that
are available for the satisfaction of obligations to creditors. The Company
shall not segregate any assets in respect of the Cash Award or the Executive's
Account. The rights of the Executive to benefits under this Agreement shall be
solely those of a general, unsecured creditor of the Company.

          2.4 No Rights as a Stockholder. The Executive shall have no dividend,
voting, or any other rights as a stockholder with respect to any Account.

          2.5 Reorganization. This Cash Award shall not affect the right of the
Company to reclassify, recapitalize or otherwise change its capital or debt
structure or to merge, consolidate, convey any or all of its assets, dissolve,
liquidate, windup or otherwise reorganize.

     3. CREDITS TO ACCOUNTS.

          3.1 Credits. The Company shall establish an Account for the Executive
with respect to the Cash Award. An amount equal to the Cash Award granted under
Section 2.1 shall be credited to such Account and allocated into three
sub-accounts, the first consisting of 25% of the Cash Award (the "First
Sub-Account"), the second consisting of 30% of the Cash Award (the "Second
Sub-Account"), and the third consisting of 45% of the Cash Award (the "Third
Sub-Account"). The Account shall not earn interest.

2

3.2 Corporate Changes. In the event of a liquidation of the Company,
or a merger, reorganization, or consolidation of the Company with any other
corporation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or the Company
becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of another corporation, if the surviving
corporation in any such merger, reorganization, or consolidation does not assume
the Award or agree to issue a substitute award in place thereof, then any
unvested portion of the Cash Award shall vest in full and become payable in
accordance with Section 4.5 of this Agreement immediately prior to such merger,
reorganization, or consolidation

          3.3 Cessation of Credits. There shall be no further credits to a
Sub-Account after the Grant Date, or to any Account or Accounts of the Executive
after termination of the Executive's employment with the Company.

     4. VESTING AND PAYMENT.

          4.1 Vesting. Except as provided in Sections 4.3 and 4.4, the Executive
shall have no interest in the Cash Award prior to vesting thereof or in excess
of the amount thereof vested. The Cash Award shall vest in three installments:

               4.1.1 The First Sub-Account shall vest on September 1, 2005;

               4.1.2 The Second Sub-Account shall vest on September 1, 2006; and

               4.1.3 The Third Sub-Account shall vest on September 1, 2007.

          4.2 Termination. Except as provided in Sections 4.3 and 4.4, if the
Executive's employment with the Company terminates for any reason, vesting shall
immediately cease upon the date of termination and no vesting credit shall be
given for partial years, regardless of the reason for the termination.

          4.3 Termination in Connection With a Change of Control.
Notwithstanding Sections 4.1 and 4.2, if Executive's employment with the Company
terminates as described in Section 5.01 of the Change of Control Severance Plan,
then any unvested portion of the Cash Award shall vest in full and become
payable in accordance with Section 4.5 of this Agreement.

          4.4 Termination due to Death. Notwithstanding Sections 4.1 and 4.2, if
the Executive's employment with the Company terminates due to death, then the
next Sub-Account due to vest, if any, shall immediately become payable in
accordance with Section 4.5 of this Agreement, and vesting shall immediately
cease upon the date of death for any other Sub-Account that was not already
vested prior to the date of death.

3

4.5 Payment Amount. Within fifteen (15) business days after a
Sub-Account vests, the Company shall pay to the Executive a cash amount equal to
the balance of that Sub-Account.

          4.6 Payments only to the Executive. Payments pursuant to this
Agreement shall be made only to the Executive or his heirs.

          4.7 Deferral. Subject to the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan,
the Executive may elect at any time prior to December 31 of the year prior to
the year of vesting and payment of any Sub-Account, to defer receipt of any or
all payments due under this Agreement with respect to such Sub-Account. Such
election shall be made, and any such deferral shall be effected and
administered, in accordance with the Deferred Compensation Plan. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Administrator reserves the right
to modify or eliminate this Section 4.7, and the right of the Executive to defer
payment hereunder, in whole or in part.

     5. ADMINISTRATION OF THE AGREEMENT.

          5.1 Administrator. This Agreement shall be administered by the
Administrator, which shall have complete discretion and authority to interpret
and construe the Agreement, decide all questions of benefits (including
underlying factual determinations), and adjudicate all claims and disputes. The
Committee may delegate any of its responsibilities with respect to the Agreement
to the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The determinations of the
Administrator on the matters referred to in this Agreement shall be final and
binding on all interested parties.

          5.2 Administrative Rules. The Administrator may (a) adopt, amend, and
rescind rules and regulations relating to the administration of this Agreement;
(b) construe the provisions of the Agreement; (c) correct any defect or supply
any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Agreement in the manner and
to the extent it, in its sole discretion, shall deem expedient to carry the
Agreement into effect; and (d) make all determinations necessary or advisable
for administering the Agreement.

          5.3 Amendment, Modification, Suspension and Termination of Cash Award.
The Administrator may from time to time in its discretion amend, modify,
suspend, or terminate, in whole or in part, any or all provisions of the
Agreement, including but not limited to providing for shorter or longer vesting
periods. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Cash Award shall not be amended,
modified, suspended or terminated in such a manner as to impair any rights of
the Executive under the Cash Award without the consent of the Executive.

     6. TAXES.

          6.1 Withholding. The amounts payable to the Executive under this
Agreement shall be reduced by any amount that the Company is required to
withhold with respect to such payments under the then-applicable provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and state and local law.

4

6.2 Executive Taxes. The Company is not responsible for, and makes no
representation or warranty whatsoever in connection with, the tax treatment
hereunder, and the Executive should consult Executive's own tax advisor.

     7. ASSIGNMENT.

     No right or interest to or in this Agreement, or any payment or benefit to
the Executive under this Agreement shall be assignable by the Executive except
by will or the laws of descent and distribution. No right, benefit or interest
of the Executive hereunder shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale,
assignment, encumbrance, charge, pledge, hypothecation or set off in respect of
any claim, debt or obligation, or to execution, attachment, levy or similar
process or assignment by operation of law. Any attempt, voluntarily or
involuntarily, to effect any action specified in the immediately preceding
sentences shall, to the full extent permitted by law, be null, void and of no
effect; provided, however, that this provision shall not preclude the Executive
from designating one or more beneficiaries to receive any amount that may be
payable to the Executive under this Agreement after Executive's death and shall
not preclude the legal representatives of the Executive's estate from assigning
any right hereunder to the person or persons entitled thereto under Executive's
will, or, in the case of intestacy, to the person or persons entitled thereto
under the laws of intestacy applicable to the Executive's estate.

     8. GENERAL.

          8.1 Laws Governing. The substantive laws of the State of Delaware
shall govern the validity, construction, enforcement and interpretation of this
Agreement, unless otherwise specified herein.

          8.2 Good Faith Determinations. No member of the Committee or the Board
shall be liable, with respect to this Agreement, for any act, whether of
commission or omission, taken by any other member or by any officer, agent, or
employee of the Company, nor, excepting circumstances involving his or her own
bad faith, for anything done or omitted to be done by himself or herself. The
Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee and Board
from and against any liability or expense hereunder, except in the case of such
member's own bad faith.

          8.3 Effect of Headings. Section headings contained in the Agreement
are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation
of the Agreement.

          8.4 Invalid Provisions. If any provision of this Agreement is held to
be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under present or future laws effective
during the term of the Agreement, such provision shall be fully severable; the
Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or
unenforceable provision had never been a part of the Agreement; and the
remaining provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and
shall not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or
severance from the Agreement. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or
unenforceable provision there shall be added automatically as part of the
Agreement a provision as similar in terms to such illegal, invalid or
unenforceable provision as is possible and still be legal, valid and
enforceable.

5

8.5 Set-Off. The Company shall be entitled, at its option and not in
lieu of any other remedies to which it may be entitled, to set off any amounts
due the Company or any affiliate of the Company against any amount due and
payable by the Company or any affiliate of the Company to the Executive pursuant
to this Agreement or otherwise.

          8.6 Venue. Each of the parties hereto consents to the jurisdiction of
any state or federal court located within the County of Orange, State of
California, and irrevocably agrees that all actions or proceedings relating to
this Agreement shall be litigated in such courts, and each of the parties waives
any objection which it may have based on personal jurisdiction, improper venue
or forum non conveniens to the conduct of any such action or proceeding in any
such court.

          8.7 Waiver. No waiver of any term or condition hereof shall be binding
unless it is in writing and signed by the Company and the Executive. The waiver
by any party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or
be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by any party.

          8.8 Inurement. The rights and obligations under this Agreement shall
inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon the Company, its successors
and assigns, and the Executive and the Executive's beneficiaries and legal
representatives.

          8.9 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between the Company and the Executive concerning the subject matter hereof, and
supersedes all other agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to such
subject matter. This is an integrated agreement.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Executive have executed this
Agreement.

WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION,            EXECUTIVE
a Delaware corporation

By /s/ Raymond M. Bukaty                /s/ John F. Coyne
   ----------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
   Raymond M. Bukaty                    John F. Coyne
   Senior Vice President,               Senior Vice President,
   Administration and General Counsel   Worldwide Operations

6

</EX-10.18.2>

<EX-10.30.1>
 6
 a23647exv10w30w1.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.30.1

EXHIBIT 10.30.1

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                       AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO SUPPLY AGREEMENT

     This Amendment No. 1 to the Supply Agreement (this "AMENDMENT") is dated as
of July 16, 2006, and is made by and between SHOWA DENKO K.K.("SHOWA DENKO"),
with offices located at Chiba, Ichihara, Japan and Western Digital Technologies,
Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WESTERN DIGITAL").

                                    RECITALS

     A. WESTERN DIGITAL and SHOWA DENKO previously executed a supply agreement
effective as of August 17, 2005 (the "Supply Agreement").

     B. WESTERN DIGITAL and SHOWA DENKO now desire to amend the Agreement in the
manner and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter provided in this Amendment.

     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants herein
contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties executing this
Amendment hereby agree as follows:

                                    AGREEMENT

     1. DEFINED TERMS. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the
meanings set forth in the Supply Agreement.

     2. TERM. The first sentence of Section 2.1 of the Supply Agreement (Term)
is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

          The term of this agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and
     expire on June 30, 2009 (the "TERM").

     3. DESIGN QUALIFICATION. The last sentence of Section 2.5 of the Supply
Agreement (Design Qualification) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced
with the following:

          [***]

     4. EXHIBIT 3.2. Exhibit 3.2 of the Supply Agreement is hereby deleted in
its entirety and replaced with the table in Exhibit 3.2 attached hereto.

     5. EXHIBIT 3.3. Exhibit 3.3 of the Supply Agreement is hereby deleted in
its entirety and replaced with the table in Exhibit 3.3 attached hereto.

     6. CONDITIONS. The effectiveness of this Amendment shall be conditioned
upon 1) approval from WDC's board of directors and 2) approval from [***].
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Amendment shall have no
force or effect unless or until such approvals have been received.

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

     7. RATIFICATION OF SUPPLY AGREEMENT. In the event of an inconsistency
between the terms of this Amendment and the terms of the Supply Agreement, the
terms of this Amendment shall control. Except as amended hereby, the Supply
Agreement is ratified, approved and confirmed and shall remain in full force and
effect in accordance with its terms without modification.

     8. CONFIDENTIALITY. Each party agrees that the terms and conditions, but
not the existence, of this Amendment will be treated as the other's Confidential
Information subject to Section 22.1 of the Supply Agreement

     9. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The VPA, Exhibits, and specific Purchase Orders and
Pull Requests and this Amendment No. 3 set forth the complete agreement between
the parties regarding their subject matter and replace all prior or
contemporaneous communications, understandings or agreements, written or oral,
about this subject.

     10. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original, but all of which
will be considered one and the same instrument. A photocopy of a signature or a
facsimile of a signature shall be as valid as an original.

2

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be
signed by their duly authorized representatives as of the Effective Date.

                                        WESTERN DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

By: /s/ Richard Thomas
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Richard Thomas
                                        Title: Executive Director Asia Materials

SHOWA DENKO K.K.

By: /s/ Kenichi Izumi
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Kenichi Izumi
                                        Title: General Manager, HD Division

3

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                                   EXHIBIT 3.2

                              PRODUCT UNIT VOLUMES

Any increases in unit volumes per quarter mutually agreed to by the parties and
any additional [***] associated therewith shall be set forth in an amendment to
this Exhibit 3.2 shall be made in accordance with the Agreement and signed by
the parties.

4

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                         WESTERN DIGITAL FISCAL QUARTERS

5

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

6

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

7

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

8

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                                   EXHIBIT 3.2
                                    CONTINUED

     A. [***]. WESTERN DIGITAL shall [***] the following [***] to SHOWA DENKO
     ([***]) in the [***] and on the dates set forth below, or, in total of
     [***] to be applied against [***] of Product in accordance with Section
     1.1(b):

[***]NO.    DATE   [***]
- --------   -----   -----
                
[***]      [***]   [***]
[***]      [***]   [***]
[***]      [***]   [***]
[***]      [***]   [***]
[***]      [***]   [***]
[***]      [***]   [***]

WESTERN DIGITAL may delay [***] of any [***] until SHOWA DENKO [***].
     The total [***] by SHOWA DENKO at any given time shall be called the
     "[***]." The parties acknowledge that the [***] have already been [***].

     B. [***] SCHEDULE. SHOWA DENKO shall [***] to WESTERN DIGITAL in the
     following [***] on the first business day of [***] as set forth below
     [***];. In the event the [***], SHOWA DENKO shall immediately [***] to
     WESTERN DIGITAL in the [***] of the [***].

(in thousands)
        --------------
       
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]

9

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]
[***]        [***]

C. [***] RESTRICTION. The parties agree that it is their mutual intent
     that the [***] be used by SHOWA DENKO solely [***], and not for SHOWA
     DENKO'S general [***] purposes.

     D. Upon the occurrence of any of the following events, either party may
     immediately set off and recoup any debt it (including its subsidiaries or
     affiliates) owes the other party (including its subsidiaries and
     affiliates), regardless when payment is due, against any debt, credit or
     other obligation or liability payable [***] (regardless whether such debt,
     obligation or liability arose out of or relates to the Agreement:

          i)   Material Default under Section 12.1; or

          ii)  insolvency event as set forth in Section 12.2 of the Agreement;
               or

          iii) change in control event as set forth in Section 12.3 of the
               Agreement.

10

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                                   EXHIBIT 3.3

                                DEVELOPMENT [***]

                          [***] WD Facility or JIT HUB
                All MEDIA shipment trays to be returned to SHOWA

                            DEVELOPMENT [***] MATRIX
                                     ([***])

Samples [***]
F       [***]
D       [***]
V       [***]
LVM     [***]

    PRODUCT FAILING TO MEET GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS, MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL
     TESTING IS SUBJECT TO RTV FOR CREDIT OR REPLACEMENT AT WESTERN DIGITAL
                                   DISCRETION.

      DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULES ARE SUBJECT TO REVISION BASED ON TECHNICAL AND
 OPERATIONAL ISSUES. DETAILED SCHEDULES AND REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING SHOWA DENKO
     MEDIA WILL BE PUBLISHED TO SHOWA DENKO FOR EACH INDIVIDUAL PROGRAM AND
                              REVISED AS REQUIRED.

                                  VOLUME [***]
                                     ([***])

AL = ALUMINUM; GL = GLASS; SFF = SMALL FORM FACTOR, GLASS
TBD = [***] TO BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS SET FORTH BELOW

11

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

ALL [***] DESIGNATED AS "TBD" (TO BE DETERMINED) IN THE TABLE ABOVE FOR MEDIA
SHALL BE MUTUALLY AGREED BY THE PARTIES AND [***] AT THE TIME OF NEGOTIATION OR
PURCHASE.

ALL [***] FOR [***] MEDIA SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE [***] SET FORTH IN
SECTION 3.3(A) OF THE AGREEMENT AND IN NO EVENT SHALL EXCEED THE [***].

ALL [***] FOR [***] MEDIA SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE [***] SET FORTH IN
SECTION 3.3(A) OF THE AGREEMENT [***] AND IN NO EVENT SHALL EXCEED THE [***].

NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, SHOWA DENKO AND WESTERN DIGITAL AGREE TO [***]
FOR ALL MEDIA IN ORDER FOR WESTERN DIGITAL TO [***].

12

</EX-10.30.1>

<EX-10.32.4>
 7
 a23647exv10w32w4.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.32.4

Exhibit 10.32.4

            FOURTH AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT

          THIS FOURTH AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
("Amendment") is entered into as of June 30, 2006, by and among WESTERN DIGITAL
TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Borrower"), WESTERN DIGITAL
(FREMONT), INC., a Delaware corporation ("WD Fremont"), the other credit parties
and guarantors party hereto (each individually a "Credit Party" and
collectively, the "Credit Parties"), the lenders signatory hereto (each
individually a "Lender" and collectively the "Lenders"), GENERAL ELECTRIC
CAPITAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, as administrative agent for Lenders
(in such capacity, "Agent"), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as documentation agent
for Lenders ("Documentation Agent"; Agent and Documentation Agent are
collectively referred to as "Co-Agents" and each, a "Co-Agent").

                                    RECITALS

     A. Borrower, WD Fremont, the other Credit Parties party thereto, Lenders,
and Co-Agents have entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated
as of September 19, 2003, as amended by the First Amendment to Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, the Second Amendment to
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 22, 2005, and the Third
Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 30,
2005 (collectively, "Credit Agreement"), pursuant to which Co-Agents and Lenders
are providing financial accommodations to or for the benefit of Borrower upon
the terms and conditions contained therein. Unless otherwise defined herein,
capitalized terms or matters of construction defined or established in Annex A
to the Credit Agreement shall be applied herein as defined or established
therein.

     B. Borrower has requested that Agent and Lenders amend the Credit
Agreement, and Agent and Lenders are willing to do so subject to the terms and
conditions of this Amendment.

                                    AGREEMENT

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the continued performance by
Borrower and each other Credit Party of their respective promises and
obligations under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, Borrower, the other Credit Parties signatory hereto,
Lenders, and Co-Agents hereby agree as follows:

          1. Ratification and Incorporation of Credit Agreement. Except as
expressly modified under this Amendment, (a) each Credit Party hereby
acknowledges, confirms, and ratifies all of the terms and conditions set forth
in, and all of its obligations under, the Credit Agreement and the other Loan
Documents, and (b) all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit
Agreement are incorporated herein by this reference as if set forth in full
herein.

          2. Amendment to Credit Agreement.

               (a) The table in paragraph (a) of ANNEX G to the Credit Agreement
is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted in lieu
therefor:

3. Conditions to Effectiveness. The effectiveness of this Amendment is
subject to satisfaction of each of the following conditions:

                    (a) receipt by Agent of this Amendment duly executed by
     Borrower, WD Fremont, WD UK, WD IS, Agent and Lenders; and

                    (b) the absence of any Defaults or Events of Default as of
     the date hereof.

          4. Entire Agreement. This Amendment, together with the Credit
Agreement and the other Loan Documents, is the entire agreement between the
parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Amendment
supersedes all prior and contemporaneous oral and written agreements and
discussions with respect to the subject matter hereof.

          5. Representations and Warranties. Borrower and each other Credit
Party hereby represents and warrants that the representations and warranties
contained in the Credit Agreement were true and correct in all material respects
when made and, except to the extent that (a) a particular representation or
warranty by its terms expressly applies only to an earlier date or (b) Borrower
or any other Credit Party, as applicable, has previously advised Agent in
writing as contemplated under the Credit Agreement, are true and correct in all
material respects as of the date hereof.

          6. Reaffirmation by Guarantors. Each Guarantor, by its execution of
this Amendment, consents to the terms hereof and ratifies and reaffirms all of
the provisions of the Guaranties.

          7. Miscellaneous.

               (a) This Amendment may be executed in identical counterpart
copies, each of which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute
one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature
page to this Amendment by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery
of a manually executed counterpart thereof.

               (b) Section headings used herein are for convenience of reference
only, are not part of this Amendment, and are not to be taken into consideration
in interpreting this Amendment.

               (c) The recitals set forth at the beginning of this Amendment are
true and correct, and such recitals are incorporated into and are a part of this
Amendment.

2

(d) Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, from and after the
date hereof, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement,"
"hereunder," "hereof," or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to
the Credit Agreement as amended hereby and each reference in the other Loan
Documents to the Credit Agreement, "thereunder," "thereof," or words of like
import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.

               (e) Except as expressly provided in Section 2 of this Amendment,
the execution, delivery, and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not (i)
limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect any right, power, or
remedy of Agent or any Lender under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan
Document, (ii) constitute a waiver of any provision in the Credit Agreement or
in any of the other Loan Documents, or (iii) alter, modify, amend, or in any way
affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants, or agreements
contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, all of which are
ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and
effect.

               (f) Each of Borrower and each of the other Credit Parties (i)
acknowledges and agrees that it has no actual or potential claim or cause of
action against Agent or any Lender relating to any Loan Documents or any actions
or events occurring on or before the date of this Amendment and (ii) waives and
releases any right to assert such claim or cause of action.

               (g) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of
this Amendment and any provision of the Credit Agreement, the terms and
provisions of this Amendment shall govern and control.

                  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]

3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement has been duly executed as of the date first written above.

                                        GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPITAL CORPORATION,
                                        as Administrative Agent and a Lender

By: /s/ Jeff Chiu
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Jeff Chiu
                                            Duly Authorized Signatory

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
                                        as a Lender

By: /s/ David Knoblauch
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: David Knoblauch
                                        Title: SVP

THE CIT GROUP/BUSINESS CREDIT, INC.,
                                        as a Lender

By: /s/ James D. Danforth Jr.
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: James D. Danforth Jr.
                                        Title: VP

WESTERN DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.,

By: /s/ Steve Milligan
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Steve Milligan
                                        Title: CFO

WESTERN DIGITAL FREMONT, INC.

By: /s/ Steve Milligan
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Steve Milligan
                                        Title: CFO

WESTERN DIGITAL (U.K.), LTD.,

By: /s/ Michael Ray
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Michael Ray
                                        Title: Assistant Secretary

WESTERN DIGITAL (I.S.) LIMITED,

By: /s/ Michael Ray
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Michael Ray
                                        Title: Assistant Secretary

</EX-10.32.4>

<EX-10.32.5>
 8
 a23647exv10w32w5.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.32.5

EXHIBIT 10.32.5

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

            FIFTH AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT

          THIS FIFTH AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
("Amendment") is entered into as of August 25, 2006, by and among WESTERN
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Borrower"), WESTERN DIGITAL
(FREMONT), INC., a Delaware corporation ("WD Fremont"), the other credit parties
and guarantors party hereto (each individually a "Credit Party" and
collectively, the "Credit Parties"), the lenders signatory hereto (each
individually a "Lender" and collectively the "Lenders"), GENERAL ELECTRIC
CAPITAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, as administrative agent for Lenders
(in such capacity, "Agent"), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as documentation agent
for Lenders ("Documentation Agent"; Agent and Documentation Agent are
collectively referred to as "Co-Agents" and each, a "Co-Agent").

                                    RECITALS

     A. Borrower, WD Fremont, the other Credit Parties party thereto, Lenders,
and Co-Agents have entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated
as of September 19, 2003, as amended by the First Amendment to Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, the Second Amendment to
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 22, 2005, the Third
Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 30,
2005 (the "Third Amendment"), and the Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement dated as of June 30, 2006 (collectively, "Credit Agreement"),
pursuant to which Co-Agents and Lenders are providing financial accommodations
to or for the benefit of Borrower upon the terms and conditions contained
therein. Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms or matters of
construction defined or established in Annex A to the Credit Agreement shall be
applied herein as defined or established therein.

     B. Borrower has requested in the letters attached hereto as APPENDICES A
and B (collectively, the "Consent Request Letters" and each, a "Consent Request
Letter") that Agent and Lenders consent to certain matters under and amend the
Credit Agreement, and Agent and Lenders are willing to do so subject to the
terms and conditions of this Amendment.

                                    AGREEMENT

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the continued performance by
Borrower and each other Credit Party of their respective promises and
obligations under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, Borrower, the other Credit Parties signatory hereto,
Lenders, and Co-Agents hereby agree as follows:

          1. Ratification and Incorporation of Credit Agreement. Except as
expressly modified under this Amendment, (a) each Credit Party hereby
acknowledges, confirms, and ratifies all of the terms and conditions set forth
in, and all of its obligations under, the Credit Agreement and the other Loan
Documents, and (b) all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit
Agreement are incorporated herein by this reference as if set forth in full
herein.

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

          2. Consent. Pursuant to the Consent Under Amended and Restated Credit
Agreement dated August 23, 2005, Agent and Requisite Lenders previously
consented to Borrower making [***] by Borrower of [***] pursuant to the terms of
a [***] entered into by Borrower [***]. Borrower has requested in the Consent
Request Letter dated July 24, 2006, attached hereto as APPENDIX A that Agent and
Requisite Lenders consent to Borrower making [***] pursuant to the terms of
[***] between [***] and Borrower dated as of [***], a copy of which is attached
to the Consent Request Letter. At Credit Parties' request, Agent and Lenders
hereby (i) consent to Borrower entering into [***] and (ii) agree that no
Default or Event of Default will have occurred under the Credit Agreement or the
other Loan Documents as a result of Borrower entering into [***] or [***] to
[***] described in [***].

          3. Amendment to Credit Agreement.

               (a) Section 1.5(a) is hereby deleted in its entirety and the
following is substituted in lieu thereof:

                    (a) Borrower shall pay interest to Agent, for the ratable
               benefit of Lenders in accordance with the various Loans being
               made by each Lender, in arrears on each applicable Interest
               Payment Date, at the following rates: (i) with respect to the
               Revolving Credit Advances, the Index Rate plus the Applicable
               Revolver Index Margin per annum or, at the election of Borrower,
               the applicable LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Revolver LIBOR
               Margin per annum; (ii) with respect to the Term Loan, the Index
               Rate plus the Applicable Term Loan Index Margin per annum or, at
               the election of Borrower, the applicable LIBOR Rate plus the
               Applicable Term Loan LIBOR Margin per annum; and (iii) with
               respect to the Swing Line Loan, the Index Rate plus the
               Applicable Revolver Index Margin per annum. The Applicable L/C
               Margin shall be 1.50% per annum, and the Applicable Unused Line
               Fee Margin shall be 0.375% per annum.

          As of the Closing Date, the Applicable Revolver Index Margin,
Applicable Revolver LIBOR Margin, Applicable Term Loan Index Margin and
Applicable Term Loan LIBOR Margin are as follows:

2

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

Applicable Revolver Index Margin    0.50%
Applicable Revolver LIBOR Margin    2.00%
Applicable Term Loan Index Margin   0.75%
Applicable Term Loan LIBOR Margin   2.25%

The Applicable Revolver Index Margin, Applicable Revolver LIBOR
Margin, Applicable Term Loan Index Margin and Applicable Term Loan LIBOR Margin
may be adjusted by reference to the following grids:

Level of
      If Free Cash Flow is         Applicable Margins:
      --------------------         -------------------
                                  
   > or equal to $100 million           Level I
>$25 million, but < $100 million        Level II
    < or equal to $25 million           Level III

Adjustments in the Applicable Revolver Index Margin, Applicable
Revolver LIBOR Margin, Applicable Term Loan Index Margin and Applicable Term
Loan LIBOR Margin commencing with the Fiscal Quarter ending June 30, 2006, shall
be implemented quarterly on a prospective basis based on Borrower's Free Cash
Flow for the trailing 12-Fiscal Month period ending as of the end of the
immediately preceding Fiscal Quarter. Adjustments in the Applicable Margins for
each calendar month shall commence with the first day of the first calendar
month that occurs more than five (5) days after the date of delivery to Lenders
of the quarterly unaudited or annual audited (as applicable) Financial
Statements evidencing the need for an adjustment. Concurrently with the delivery
of those Financial Statements, Borrower shall deliver to Agent and Lenders a
certificate, signed by its chief financial officer, vice president corporate
controller or vice president of finance, setting forth in reasonable detail the
basis for the continuance of, or any change in, the Applicable Margins. Failure
to timely deliver such Financial Statements shall, in addition to any other
remedy provided for in this Agreement, result in an increase in the Applicable
Margins to the highest level set forth in the foregoing grid, until the first
day of the first calendar month following the delivery of those Financial
Statements demonstrating that such an increase is not required. At any time that
an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in addition to the possible
application of the Default Rate in accordance with SECTION 1.5(D), the
Applicable Margins shall be calculated in accordance with Level III above and
any reduction in the Applicable Margins based upon the financial test

3

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

described above shall be deferred until the first day of the first calendar
month following the date on which such Event of Default is waived or cured.

               (b) Clause (a) of the definition of "Commitment Termination Date"
is hereby deleted in its entirety and "September 20, 2009" is substituted
therefor.

               (c) Clause (k) of the definition of the term "Permitted
Encumbrances" in ANNEX A to the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its
entirety and the following is substituted in lieu therefor:

                    (k) Liens created after the Closing Date by conditional sale
               or other title retention agreements (including Capital Leases) or
               in connection with purchase money Indebtedness with respect to
               Equipment and Fixtures (i) that constitute the Original Leased
               Equipment, or (ii) otherwise acquired by any Credit Party in the
               ordinary course of business during the period from September 30,
               2005, through September 30, 2007, involving the incurrence of an
               aggregate amount of purchase money Indebtedness and Capital Lease
               Obligations (including obligations of WD Fremont with respect to
               the Additional Leased Equipment and the 2006 Leased Equipment) of
               not more than $50,000,000 outstanding at any one time for all
               such Liens (provided that such Liens attach only to the assets
               subject to such purchase money debt and such Indebtedness is
               incurred within 90 days following the purchase of such Equipment
               or Fixtures and does not exceed 100% of the purchase price of the
               subject assets) so long as Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other
               than Excluded Subsidiaries) shall have Available Liquidity in
               excess of $200,000,000 at the time that such Credit Party enters
               into such purchase money debt or Capital Lease;

               (d) The following definitions are hereby added to ANNEX A to the
Credit Agreement in appropriate alphabetical order:

                    "Fifth Amendment" means the Fifth Amendment to Amended and
               Restated Credit Agreement dated as of August 25, 2006.

                    "Free Cash Flow" shall mean, with respect to Borrower and
               its Subsidiaries (other than the Excluded Subsidiaries) on a
               consolidated basis, for the 12-month period then ended, (a)
               EBITDA for such period, minus (b) the sum of (i) Capital
               Expenditures made during such period, (ii) any provision for
               income taxes for such period, (iii) dividends and other
               Restricted Payments made during such period in accordance with
               SECTION 6.14 or as otherwise consented to under this Agreement,
               (iv) Interest Expense for such period, and (v) payments of
               principal made during such period with respect to Indebtedness of
               Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded Subsidiaries),
               plus (c) the aggregate amount of the proceeds from the issuance
               of common Stock of Borrower permitted or as otherwise consented
               to under this Agreement in an amount not to exceed the aggregate
               amount of redemption, purchase, repurchase

4

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

               or retirement payments made during such period by Borrower to
               holders of the common Stock of Holdings permitted or as otherwise
               consented to under this Agreement.

                    "2006 Leased Equipment" shall mean the specific items of
               leased Equipment described in Schedule 1 to the letter attached
               to the Fifth Amendment as APPENDIX B.

               (e) Paragraph (D) of ANNEX I to the Credit Agreement is hereby
amended by replacing the reference to "Mr. Steven M. Slavin" with "Treasury
Department".

          4. Conditions to Effectiveness. The effectiveness of this Amendment is
subject to satisfaction of each of the following conditions:

                    (a) receipt by Agent of this Amendment duly executed by
     Borrower, WD Fremont, WD UK, WD IS, Agent and Lenders; and

                    (b) the absence of any Defaults or Events of Default as of
     the date hereof.

          5. Entire Agreement. This Amendment, together with the Credit
Agreement and the other Loan Documents, is the entire agreement between the
parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Amendment
supersedes all prior and contemporaneous oral and written agreements and
discussions with respect to the subject matter hereof.

          6. Representations and Warranties. Borrower and each other Credit
Party hereby represents and warrants that the representations and warranties
contained in the Credit Agreement were true and correct in all material respects
when made and, except to the extent that (a) a particular representation or
warranty by its terms expressly applies only to an earlier date or (b) Borrower
or any other Credit Party, as applicable, has previously advised Agent in
writing as contemplated under the Credit Agreement, are true and correct in all
material respects as of the date hereof.

          7. Reaffirmation by Guarantors. Each Guarantor, by its execution of
this Amendment, consents to the terms hereof and ratifies and reaffirms all of
the provisions of the Guaranties.

          8. Miscellaneous.

               (a) This Amendment may be executed in identical counterpart
copies, each of which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute
one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature
page to this Amendment by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery
of a manually executed counterpart thereof.

               (b) Section headings used herein are for convenience of reference
only, are not part of this Amendment, and are not to be taken into consideration
in interpreting this Amendment.

5

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

               (c) The recitals set forth at the beginning of this Amendment are
true and correct, and such recitals are incorporated into and are a part of this
Amendment.

               (d) Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, from and after the
date hereof, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement,"
"hereunder," "hereof," or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to
the Credit Agreement as amended hereby and each reference in the other Loan
Documents to the Credit Agreement, "thereunder," "thereof," or words of like
import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.

               (e) Except as expressly provided in Section 2 and Section 3 of
this Amendment, the execution, delivery, and effectiveness of this Amendment
shall not (i) limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect any
right, power, or remedy of Agent or any Lender under the Credit Agreement or any
other Loan Document, (ii) constitute a waiver of any provision in the Credit
Agreement or in any of the other Loan Documents, or (iii) alter, modify, amend,
or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants, or
agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, all of
which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force
and effect.

               (f) Each of Borrower and each of the other Credit Parties (i)
acknowledges and agrees that it has no actual or potential claim or cause of
action against Agent or any Lender relating to any Loan Documents or any actions
or events occurring on or before the date of this Amendment and (ii) waives and
releases any right to assert such claim or cause of action.

               (g) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of
this Amendment and any provision of the Credit Agreement, the terms and
provisions of this Amendment shall govern and control.

                  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]

6

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Fifth Amendment to Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement has been duly executed as of the date first written above.

                                        GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPITAL CORPORATION,
                                        as Administrative Agent and a Lender

By: /s/ Jeff Chiu
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Jeff Chiu
                                            Duly Authorized Signatory

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
                                        as a Lender

By: /s/ M.R. Williamson
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Michael R. Williamson
                                        Title: SVP

THE CIT GROUP/BUSINESS CREDIT, INC.,
                                        as a Lender

By: /s/ J. Danforth
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: J. Danforth
                                        Title: VP

WESTERN DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.,

By: /s/ Raymond M. Bukaty
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Raymond M. Bukaty
                                        Title: SVP Administration,
                                               General Counsel & Secretary

WESTERN DIGITAL FREMONT, INC.

By: /s/ Raymond M. Bukaty
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Raymond M. Bukaty
                                        Title: Secretary

WESTERN DIGITAL (U.K.), LTD.,

By: /s/ Raymond M. Bukaty
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Raymond M. Bukaty
                                        Title: Director

WESTERN DIGITAL (I.S.) LIMITED,

By: /s/ Raymond M. Bukaty
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Raymond M. Bukaty
                                        Title: Secretary

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                                   APPENDIX A

                      JULY 24, 2006 CONSENT REQUEST LETTER

July 24, 2006

ALL VIA OVERNIGHT COURIER:

General Electric Capital Corporation
350 South Beverly Drive, Suite 200
Beverly Hills, California 90212
Attention: Account Manager (Western Digital)
Facsimile: (310) 785-0644
Telephone: (310) 203-0335

General Electric Capital Corporation   DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary US LLP
201 High Ridge Road                    1999 Avenue of the Stars, Fourth Floor
Stamford, Connecticut 06927-5100       Los Angeles, California 90067-6022
Attention: Corporate Counsel           Attention: Gary B. Rosenbaum, Esq.
Facsimile: (203) 316-7822              Facsimile: (310) 595-3442
Telephone: (203) 316-7500              Telephone: (310) 595-3142

     Re: Consent under Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

Gentlemen:

          Reference is made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated
as of September 19, 2003, as amended by the First Amendment to Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, Second Amendment to
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as April 22, 2005, and Third
Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 30,
2005, and Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
June 30, 2006 (including all annexes, exhibits and schedules thereto, and as the
same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to
time, collectively, the "Credit Agreement"), by and among Western Digital
Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly known as Western Digital
Corporation ("Borrower"), Western Digital (Fremont), Inc. ("WD Fremont"), the
other credit parties party thereto, General Electric Capital Corporation, a
Delaware corporation ("GE Capital"), as administrative agent (in such capacity,
"Administrative Agent" or "Agent") for the lenders ("Lenders"), Bank of America,
N.A., as documentation agent for Lenders ("Documentation Agent"; Administrative
Agent and Documentation Agent are collectively referred to as "Co-Agents" and
each, a "Co-Agent"), and Lenders. Capitalized terms or matters of construction
defined or established in ANNEX A to the Credit Agreement shall be applied
herein as defined or established therein.

          1. Request for Consent to [***]. SECTION 6.2 of the Credit Agreement
provides that no Credit Party shall make or permit to exist any investment in,
or make, accrue or permit to exist loans or advances of money to, any Person,
through the direct or indirect lending of money, holding of securities or
otherwise, subject to the specific exceptions set forth therein. In that

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

certain consent letter dated August 23, 2005 executed Agent, Requisite Lenders,
Borrower and each Guarantor, Agent and Lenders consented to [***] with respect
to the [***] by Borrower of [***] pursuant to a [***] entered into by Borrower
and [***] effective as of [***], which agreement is attached hereto as EXHIBIT
A. Pursuant to that certain [***], a copy of which is attached hereto as EXHIBIT
B ("[***]"), Borrower is to make [***]. Request is hereby made for consent to
the [***], and agreement by the Agent and Lenders that no Default or Event of
Default will have occurred under the Credit Agreement or the other Loan
Documents as a result of Borrower entering into [***] or [***].

          2. Request for Change in Authorized Signatories. Annex E of the Credit
Agreement requires that the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Borrower
sign certain financial and other reports provided pursuant to the Credit
Agreement. The Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Borrower has previously
delivered reports issued under Annex F of the Credit Agreement. Borrower hereby
requests that any of the following be permitted to sign such financial and other
reports issued pursuant to the Credit Agreement and to issue request for consent
or amendment letters:

     a.   Steve Milligan, Chief Financial Officer;

     b.   Joe Carillo, Vice President Corporate Controller;

     c.   Wolfgang Nickl, Vice President Finance;

     d.   Ray M. Bukaty, Sr. Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
          Secretary; or

     e.   Michael Ray, Vice President Corporate Law.

          Please feel free to call if you have any questions or need
clarification.

                                        Sincerely,

/s/ Steve Milligan
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Steve Milligan
                                        Chief Financial Officer
                                        Western Digital Technologies, Inc.

Attachments: Exhibits A and B

cc: Joe Carillo
    Wolfgang Nickl
    Catherine Fields
    Raymond M. Bukaty, Esq.
    Michael Ray, Esq.
    Claudia Kihano Parker, Esq.

9

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                                   APPENDIX B

                      AUGUST 4, 2006 CONSENT REQUEST LETTER

August 4, 2006

ALL VIA OVERNIGHT COURIER:

General Electric Capital Corporation
350 South Beverly Drive, Suite 200
Beverly Hills, California 90212
Attention: Account Manager (Western Digital)
Facsimile: (310) 785-0644
Telephone: (310) 203-0335

General Electric Capital Corporation   DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary US LLP
201 High Ridge Road                    1999 Avenue of the Stars, Fourth Floor
Stamford, Connecticut 06927-5100       Los Angeles, California 90067-6022
Attention: Corporate Counsel           Attention: Gary B. Rosenbaum, Esq.
Facsimile: (203) 316-7822              Facsimile: (310) 595-3442
Telephone: (203) 316-7500              Telephone: (310) 595-3142

     Re: Request for Consent under and Amendment of Amended and Restated Credit
         Agreement

Gentlemen:

          Reference is made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated
as of September 19, 2003, as amended by the First Amendment to Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, Second Amendment to
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as April 22, 2005, and Third
Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 30,
2005 ("Third Amendment to Credit Agreement"), and Fourth Amendment to Amended
and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 30, 2006 (including all annexes,
exhibits and schedules thereto, and as the same may be amended, restated,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, collectively, the "Credit
Agreement"), by and among Western Digital Technologies, Inc., a Delaware
corporation formerly known as Western Digital Corporation ("Borrower"), Western
Digital (Fremont), Inc. ("WD Fremont"), the other credit parties party thereto,
General Electric Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("GE Capital"), as
administrative agent (in such capacity, "Administrative Agent" or "Agent") for
the lenders ("Lenders"), Bank of America, N.A., as documentation agent for
Lenders ("Documentation Agent"; Administrative Agent and Documentation Agent are
collectively referred to as "Co-Agents" and each, a "Co-Agent"), and Lenders.
Capitalized terms or matters of construction defined or established in ANNEX A
to the Credit Agreement shall be applied herein as defined or established
therein.

          1. Pursuant to the Consent under Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
dated as of June 24, 2004, Agent and Requisite Lenders previously consented to
Borrower and WD Fremont entering into a Master Equipment Lease Agreement with
CIT Technologies Corporation, d/b/a CIT Systems Leasing (the "CIT Lease"), and
agreed to release the Agent's Liens on the specific items of equipment set forth
in Exhibit A to Schedules 1 and 2 to the CIT Lease as of June 24, 2004 (the
"Original

10

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

Leased Equipment"). Pursuant to the Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, Agent
and Requisite Lenders consented to WD Fremont entering into additional exhibits
to the CIT Lease covering certain leased Equipment described therein (the
"Additional Leased Equipment") and agreed to release the Agent's Liens on the
Additional Leased Equipment.

          2. The Credit Parties hereby request that Agent and Lenders consent to
Borrower and WD Fremont entering into the additional schedules to the CIT Lease
attached hereto as Schedule 1, and agree (a) to release the Liens of Agent, on
behalf of Co-Agents and Lenders, on the specific items of equipment listed on
such Schedule 1 (the "2006 CIT Leased Equipment"), and (b) that no Default or
Event of Default has occurred as a result of Borrower and/or WD Fremont entering
into such additional schedules to the CIT Lease.

          3. In furtherance of the above, the Credit Parties hereby request that
Agent and Lenders agree to amend the Credit Agreement as follows:

               (a) Clause (k) of the definition of the term "Permitted
Encumbrances" in ANNEX A to the Credit Agreement should be hereby deleted in its
entirety and the following substituted in lieu thereof:

                    "(k) Liens created after the Closing Date by conditional
               sale or other title retention agreements (including Capital
               Leases) or in connection with purchase money Indebtedness with
               respect to Equipment and Fixtures (i) that constitute the
               Original Leased Equipment, (ii) the Additional Leased Equipment,
               or (iii) otherwise acquired by any Credit Party in the ordinary
               course of business during the period from September 30, 2005,
               through September 30, 2007, involving the incurrence of an
               aggregate amount of purchase money Indebtedness and Capital Lease
               Obligations (including obligations of WD Fremont with respect to
               the 2006 CIT Leased Equipment) of not more than $50,000,000
               outstanding at any one time for all such Liens (provided that
               such Liens attach only to the assets subject to such purchase
               money debt and such Indebtedness is incurred within 90 days
               following the purchase of such Equipment or Fixtures and does not
               exceed 100% of the purchase price of the subject assets) so long
               as Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Excluded
               Subsidiaries) shall have Available Liquidity in excess of
               $200,000,000 at the time that such Credit Party enters into such
               purchase money debt or Capital Lease;"

          Please feel free to call if you have any questions or need
clarification.

                                        Sincerely,

/s/ Steve Milligan
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Steve Milligan
                                        Chief Financial Officer
                                        Western Digital Technologies, Inc.

Attachments: Exhibit A

cc: Joe Carillo
    Wolfgang Nickl
    Catherine Fields
    Raymond M. Bukaty, Esq.
    Michael Ray, Esq.
    Claudia Kihano Parker, Esq.

11

PORTIONS DENOTED WITH [***] HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO A REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT.

                                   SCHEDULE 1
                            2006 CIT Leased Equipment

12

</EX-10.32.5>

<EX-21>
 9
 a23647exv21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

exv21 

Exhibit 21  

WESTERN
    DIGITAL CORPORATION 
    SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY  

State or Other Jurisdiction of 

Name of Entity 

Incorporation or Organization 

Pacifica Insurance Corporation

Hawaii

Read-Rite International

Cayman Islands

Read-Rite (Malaysia) Sdn.
    Bhd. 

Malaysia

Read-Rite Philippines, Inc. 

Philippines

Western Digital Canada Corporation

Ontario, Canada

Western Digital (Deutschland) GmbH

Germany

Western Digital (France) SARL

France

Western Digital (Fremont),
    Inc. 

Delaware

Western Digital Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong

Western Digital Ireland, Ltd. 

Cayman Islands

Western Digital (I.S.) Limited

Ireland

Western Digital Japan Ltd. 

Japan

Western Digital Korea, Ltd. 

Republic of Korea

Western Digital Latin America,
    Inc. 

Delaware

Western Digital (Malaysia) Sdn.
    Bhd. 

Malaysia

Western Digital Netherlands
    B.V. 

The Netherlands

Western Digital (S.E. Asia) Pte
    Ltd. 

Singapore

Western Digital Taiwan Co.,
    Ltd. 

Taiwan

Western Digital Technologies,
    Inc. 

Delaware

Western Digital (Thailand) Company
    Limited

Thailand

Western Digital (UK) Limited

England

Western Digital Ventures,
    Inc. 

Delaware

RS Patent Holding Corporation

Delaware

Keen Personal Media, Inc. 

Delaware

Keen Personal Technologies,
    Inc. 

Delaware

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 a23647exv23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

exv23 

Exhibit 23  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors 
    Western Digital Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
    statements on
     Forms S-8 
    (Nos. 2-76179, 2-97365,
     33-9853, 
     33-57953, 
     33-60166, 
     33-60168, 
     33-51725, 
     333-20359, 
     333-31487, 
     333-41423, 
     333-42991, 
     333-70413, 
     333-95499, 
     333-36332, 
     333-56738, 
     33-24585, 
     33-33365, 
     33-56128, 
     333-107227, 
     333-111130, 
     333-122475 
    and
     333-129813) 
    and  S-3 
    (Nos.
     33-51695, 
     333-36350, 
     333-49250, 
     333-70785 
    and
     333-52463) 
    of Western Digital Corporation and subsidiaries of our reports
    dated November 17, 2006 related to the consolidated balance
    sheets of Western Digital Corporation as of June 30, 2006
    and July 1, 2005 and the related consolidated statements of
    income, shareholders  equity and comprehensive income and
    cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
    June 30, 2006, and the related financial statement
    schedule, management s assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal controls over financial reporting as of June 30,
    2006 and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial
    reporting as of June 30, 2006, which reports appear in the
    June 30, 2006, Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Western Digital Corporation.

Our report dated November 17, 2006, contains an explanatory
    paragraph, which states the Company has adopted the provisions
    of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment,  on July 2, 2005 and
    accordingly, has changed its method of accounting for share
    based compensation.

/s/  KPMG
    LLP

Costa Mesa, California

November 17, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a23647exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

PURSUANT
    TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, Arif Shakeel, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Western Digital Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15(d)-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
    (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b. Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d. Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Arif
    Shakeel 

Arif Shakeel

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: November 17, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a23647exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF
    2002  

I, Stephen D. Milligan, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Western Digital Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15(d)-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
    (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b. Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d. Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Stephen
    D. Milligan 

Stephen D. Milligan

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: November 17, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a23647exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

The following certification is being furnished solely to
    accompany the Report pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350
    and in accordance with SEC Release
     No. 33-8238. 
    This certification shall not be deemed  filed  for
    purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that
    section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into any
    filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    except to the extent that Western Digital Corporation
    specifically incorporates it by reference.

Certification of
    Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
    undersigned officer of Western Digital Corporation, a Delaware
    corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies, to his
    knowledge, that:

(i) the accompanying Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of the Company for the period ended June 30, 2006 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(ii) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   Arif
    Shakeel 

Arif Shakeel

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: November 17, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
    retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 a23647exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2  

The following certification is being furnished solely to
    accompany the Report pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350
    and in accordance with SEC Release
     No. 33-8238. 
    This certification shall not be deemed  filed  for
    purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that
    section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into any
    filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    except to the extent that Western Digital Corporation
    specifically incorporates it by reference.

Certification of
    Chief Financial Officer  

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
    undersigned officer of Western Digital Corporation, a Delaware
    corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies, to his
    knowledge, that:

(i) the accompanying Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of the Company for the period ended June 30, 2006 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(ii) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   Stephen
    D. Milligan 

Stephen D. Milligan

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: November 17, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
    retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.2>

