<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061120_10-K_edgar_data_6281_0000950135-06-007047_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1564750</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>494277</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2708</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>780670</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>84</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950135-06-007047.hdr.sgml : 20061120
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061120160156
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-06-007047
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061028
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061120
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061120

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ANALOG DEVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000006281
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				042348234
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1205

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07819
		FILM NUMBER:		061229948

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7813294700

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 F/QKlLm01xgdWYOOsn2UE72B7VcejdMcvpDcNCMKykqavScx/TwTv6cNtuNt7YZD
 V2msCshdv01ooub+DNWHFA==

 0000950135-06-007047.txt : 20061120

10-K
 1
 b63086ade10vk.htm
 ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

(Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended October 28, 2006 

OR 

For the transition period
    from          to           

Commission File
     No. 1-7819  

Analog Devices, Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

(781) 329-4700  
         (Registrant s
    telephone number, including area code)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Common Stock
    $0.16 2 / 3 
    Par Value  

New York Stock
    Exchange  

Title of Each Class  

Name of Each Exchange on Which
    Registered   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 
    None 
       Title of Class  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  YES         NO  o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  YES  o      NO   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
    required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  YES         NO  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large Accelerated
    Filer          Accelerated
    Filer   o      Non-Accelerated
    Filer   o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  YES  o      NO   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
    equity held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately
    $10,106,000,000 based on the last reported sale of the Common
    Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape reporting
    system on April 28, 2006. Shares of voting and non-voting
    stock held by executive officers, directors and holders of more
    than 5% of the outstanding stock have been excluded from this
    calculation because such persons or institutions may be deemed
    affiliates. This determination of affiliate status in not a
    conclusive determination for other purposes.

As of October 28, 2006 there were 342,000,004 shares
    of Common Stock,
    $0.16 2 / 3 
    par value per share, outstanding.

Documents
    Incorporated by Reference  

Document Description 

Form 10-K 
    Part 

Portions of the Registrant s
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
    held March 13, 2007

III

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY   
   PART II   
     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (all tabular amounts in thousands except per share amounts)   
     ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME   
       CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY   
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
     ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
   PART III   
     ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
     ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
   PART IV   
     ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
   SIGNATURES   
   Ex-10.3 First Amend. to Trust Agreement for Deferred Compensation Plan   
   Ex-10.9 Amend. No.1 to 2006 Stock Incentive Plan   
   Ex-10.35 First Amend. dated December 13, 1996 to Lease Agreement   
   Ex-10.36 Second Amend. dated December 20, 1996 to Lease Agreement   
   Ex-10.37 Third Amend. dated May 27, 1997 to Lease Agreement   
   Ex-10.38 Lease Agreement dated November 14, 1997, as amended   
   Ex-21 Subsidiaries of the Company   
   Ex-23 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP   
   Ex-31.1 Section 302 Certification of CEO   
   Ex-31.2 Section 302 Certification of CFO   
   Ex-32.1 Section 906 Certification of CEO   
   Ex-32.2 Section 906 Certification of CFO   

Table of Contents   

PART I  

ITEM 1.    

BUSINESS  

Company
    Overview  

We are a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing
    of high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital signal
    processing integrated circuits used in industrial,
    communication, computer and consumer applications. Since our
    inception in 1965, we have focused on solving the engineering
    challenges associated with signal processing in electronic
    equipment. Real world signal processing describes the process of
    converting real-world phenomena such as temperature, motion,
    pressure, light and sound into electrical signals to be used in
    a wide array of electronic equipment ranging from industrial
    process control, factory automation systems, defense
    electronics, portable wireless communications devices, cellular
    basestations, central office networking equipment, computers,
    automobiles, medical imaging equipment, digital cameras and
    digital televisions. Signal processing technology is a critical
    element of high-speed communications, digital entertainment, and
    other consumer, computer and industrial applications. As new
    generations of digital applications evolve, they generate new
    needs for high-performance analog signal processing and digital
    signal processing, or DSP, technology. We produce a wide range
    of products that are designed to meet the signal processing
    technology needs of a broad base of customers.

During our fiscal year ended October 28, 2006, or fiscal
    2006, approximately 42% of our revenue came from the industrial
    market, which includes factory automation, medical equipment,
    scientific instrumentation, automatic test equipment, automotive
    electronics, security equipment, and aerospace and defense
    systems.

Revenue from the communications market represented approximately
    29% of our fiscal 2006 revenue. Communications applications
    include wireless handsets and wireless basestations, as well as
    products used for high-speed access to the Internet, including
    broadband modems and central office networking equipment.

The demand for our products used in high-performance consumer
    electronics has been increasing and represented approximately
    17% of our revenue for fiscal 2006. Applications in this market
    include digital cameras and camcorders, flat-panel and plasma
    digital televisions, and surround sound audio systems.

We also serve the personal computer market with products that
    monitor and manage power usage, process signals used in flat
    panel displays and multimedia projectors, and enable
    high-quality audio. In fiscal 2006, the computer market
    accounted for approximately 12% of our revenue.

We sell our products worldwide through a direct sales force,
    third-party distributors and independent sales representatives.
    We have direct sales offices in 20 countries, including the
    United States.

We are headquartered near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts, and
    have manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, North Carolina,
    Ireland and the Philippines. On November 9, 2006, we closed
    our Sunnyvale, California wafer fabrication facility and
    transferred virtually all of the production of products
    manufactured there to our facility in Wilmington, Massachusetts.
    We were founded in 1965 and are incorporated in Massachusetts.
    As of October 28, 2006, we employed approximately 9,800
    individuals worldwide. Our common stock is listed on the New
    York Stock Exchange under the symbol ADI and is included in the
    Standard & Poor s 500 Index.

We maintain a website with the address www.analog.com. We are
    not including the information contained on our website as a part
    of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    We make available free of charge through our website our Annual
    Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and Current Reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission. We also make available on our website our corporate
    governance guidelines, the charters for our audit committee,
    compensation committee, and nominating and corporate governance
    committee, our stock option granting policies and our code of
    business conduct and ethics, and such information is available
    in print to any stockholder of Analog Devices who requests it.
    In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments
    to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics
    that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of
    the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock
    Exchange.

1

Table of Contents   

Industry
    Background  

All electronic signals fall into one of two categories, analog
    or digital. Analog, also known as linear, signals represent
    real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound,
    speed and motion. This information can be detected and measured
    using analog sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by
    generating continuously-varying voltages and currents. The
    signals from these sensors are initially processed using analog
    methods, such as amplification, filtering and shaping. They are
    then usually converted to digital form for storage or further
    manipulation. The further manipulation of the signals after
    conversion to digital form is called  digital signal
    processing.  Digital signals represent the  ones 
    and  zeros  of binary arithmetic and are either on or
    off. Digital signals are frequently converted back to analog
    form for functions such as video display, audio output or
    control. These manipulations and transformations from analog to
    digital and back to analog are known as  real-world signal
    processing  within the signal chain.

Significant advances in semiconductor technology in recent years
    have substantially increased the performance and functionality
    of integrated circuits, or ICs, used in signal processing
    applications. These advances include the ability to combine
    analog and digital signal processing capability on a single
    chip, thereby making possible more highly-integrated solutions.
    The widespread application of low-cost, high-performance
    microprocessor-based systems and the ongoing transition to
    digital media for communications, music, photography, and video
    has increased the need for precise, high-speed signal
    conditioning interfaces between the analog world and digital
    electronics. At the same time, the convergence of computing and
    communications has resulted in end products that incorporate
     state-of-the-art 
    signal processing capability onto as few chips as possible. Our
    products are designed to be used within electronic equipment to
    achieve higher performance, including greater speed, improved
    accuracy, more efficient signal processing and minimized power
    consumption.

Principal
    Products  

We design, manufacture and market a broad line of
    high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and
    digital signal processing technologies. Our ICs are designed to
    address a wide range of real-world signal processing
    applications. Across the entire range of our signal processing
    ICs are both general-purpose standard products used by a broad
    range of customers and applications as well as
    application-specific products designed for specific clusters of
    customers in key target markets. By using readily available,
    high-performance, general-purpose products in their systems, our
    customers can reduce the time they need to bring new products to
    market. Given the high cost of developing more customized ICs,
    our standard products often provide the most cost-effective
    solution for many low to medium volume applications. However, in
    some communications, computer and consumer products, we focus on
    working with leading customers to design application-specific
    solutions. We begin with our existing core technologies in
    analog and DSP, and devise a solution to more closely meet the
    needs of a specific customer or group of customers. Because we
    have already developed the core technology for our
    general-purpose products, we can create application-specific
    solutions quickly.

We produce and market several thousand products. Our ten highest
    revenue products, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately
    10% of our revenue for fiscal 2006. The majority of our products
    are proprietary, meaning equivalent products are not available
    from competitors. A limited number of other companies may
    provide products with similar functions.

Analog
    Products  

Our analog IC technology has been the foundation of our business
    for four decades, and we believe we are one of the world s
    largest suppliers of analog ICs. Our analog ICs are primarily
    high-performance devices, generally defined as devices that
    support a minimum of 10-bits of accuracy and a minimum of 50
    megahertz of speed. The principal advantages these products have
    versus competitors  products include higher accuracy, lower
    cost per function, smaller size, lower power consumption and
    fewer components resulting in improved reliability. The majority
    of our analog IC product revenue is attributable to sales of
    data converters and amplifiers. The data converter and amplifier
    product categories represented approximately 61% of our fiscal
    2006 revenue. Over the past several years we have been expanding
    our analog IC product offerings along the entire analog signal
    chain and into

2

Table of Contents   

product areas such as radio frequency integrated circuits, or RF
    ICs, and power management products such as voltage regulators
    and thermal monitoring ICs, phase locked loops and high-speed
    clock ICs.

The majority of our analog IC products are proprietary to us in
    their design and our product portfolio addresses a wide range of
    applications. Our product portfolio includes several thousand
    analog ICs, any one of which can have as many as several hundred
    customers. Our analog ICs typically have long product life
    cycles. Our analog IC customers include both original equipment
    manufacturers, or OEMs, and customers who build electronic
    subsystems for integration into larger systems.

Our analog technology base also includes products using an
    advanced IC technology known in the industry as surface
    micromachining, which is used to produce semiconductor products
    known as micro-electromechanical systems, or MEMS. This
    technology enables extremely small mechanical sensing elements
    to be built on the surface of a chip along with supporting
    circuitry. In addition to incorporating an electro-mechanical
    structure, these devices also have analog circuitry for
    conditioning signals obtained from the sensing element. The
    integration of signal conditioning and MEMS is a unique feature
    of our products which we call
    iMEMS   .
    Our iMEMS product portfolio includes accelerometers used to
    sense acceleration, and gyroscopes used to sense position. The
    majority of our current revenue from MEMS products is derived
    from accelerometers used by automotive manufacturers in airbag
    applications. However, revenue from consumer and industrial
    customers is increasing as we develop products using this
    technology for applications in these end markets.

DSP
    Products  

DSPs are processors that are optimized for high-speed numeric
    calculations, which are essential for instantaneous, or
    real-time, processing of digital data generated, in most cases,
    from analog to digital signal conversion. Our DSP products are
    designed to be fully programmable and to efficiently execute
    specialized software programs, or algorithms, associated with
    processing digitized real-time, real-world data. Programmable
    DSPs provide the flexibility to modify the device s
    function quickly and inexpensively in software. We offer both
    general-purpose and application-specific DSP products.
    General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write their own
    algorithms using software development tools that we provide and
    software development tools they obtain from third-party
    suppliers. Our application-specific DSP products typically
    include analog and DSP technology and the DSPs are preprogrammed
    to execute software for applications such as wireless
    telecommunications or image processing. Our DSPs are designed in
    families of products that share a common architecture and
    therefore can execute the same software. We support these
    products with
     easy-to-use, 
    low-cost development tools, which reduce our customers 
    product development costs and
     time-to-market. 

We also have the capability to combine our analog and digital
    signal processing technology into multi-function mixed-signal
    devices and chipsets. The growing technological demands
    associated with the use of audio and video in computers and
    consumer products as well as the networking of communications
    systems has created new opportunities for these mixed-signal
    products.

Markets
    and Applications  

The following describes some of the characteristics of, and
    customer products within, our major markets:

Industrial     Our industrial market
    includes the following areas:

Industrial Process Automation    Our industrial
    process automation market includes applications such as factory
    automation systems, automatic process control systems, robotics,
    environmental control systems and automatic test equipment.
    These applications generally require ICs that offer performance
    greater than that available from commodity-level ICs, but
    generally do not have production volumes that warrant custom or
    application-specific ICs. Combinations of analog, mixed-signal
    and DSP ICs are usually employed to achieve the necessary
    functionality. Automatic test equipment applications have
    created opportunities for the design of application-specific ICs
    that require a high level of electronic circuitry.

Instrumentation    Our instrumentation market
    includes engineering, medical and scientific instruments. These
    applications are usually designed using the highest performance
    analog and mixed-signal ICs available.

3

Table of Contents   

Customer products include oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, CT
    scanners, MRI equipment, blood analyzers and microscopes.

Defense/Aerospace    The defense, commercial
    avionics and space markets all require high-performance ICs that
    meet rigorous environmental and reliability specifications. Many
    of our analog ICs can be supplied in versions that meet these
    standards. In addition, many products can be supplied to meet
    the standards required for broadcast satellites and other
    commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this
    market are specifically-tested versions of products derived from
    our standard product offering. Customer products include
    navigation systems, flight simulators, radar systems and
    security devices.

Automotive    Although the automotive market has
    historically been served with low-cost, low-performance ICs,
    demand has emerged for higher performance devices for a wide
    range of safety and entertainment applications. In response, we
    have developed products specifically for the automotive market.
    We supply a micromachined IC used as a crash sensor in airbag
    systems, roll-over sensing, global positioning satellite, or
    GPS, automotive navigation systems, anti-lock brakes and
     smart  suspension systems. In addition, our analog
    and DSP ICs have application in engine control, in-cabin
    electronics, audio and collision avoidance systems.

Communications     The development of
    broadband, wireless and Internet infrastructures around the
    world has created an important market for our communications
    products. Communications technology involves the acquisition of
    analog signals that are converted from analog to digital and
    digital to analog form during the process of transmitting and
    receiving data. The need for higher speed and reduced power
    consumption, coupled with more reliable, bandwidth-efficient
    communications, has been creating demand for our products. Our
    products are used in the full spectrum of signal processing for
    audio, data, image and video communication. In wireless and
    broadband communication applications, our products are
    incorporated into cellular handsets, cellular base station
    equipment, modems, pagers, PBX switches, routers and remote
    access servers.

Consumer Electronics     Increased market
    demand for digital entertainment systems has allowed us to
    combine analog and digital design capability to provide
    solutions that are designed to meet the rigorous cost, size and
    reliability requirements of the consumer electronics market. The
    emergence of high-performance, feature-rich consumer products,
    such as digital camcorders and cameras, home theater systems,
    advanced flat-screen and plasma digital televisions, video
    projectors and high-definition DVD recorders/players, has
    created a market for our high-performance ICs with a high level
    of specific functionality.

Computers and Computer Peripherals    
    Image and sound-enabled applications used in computer gaming and
    web sites and the increasing need for power and thermal
    management capability in PCs have provided opportunities for us
    in the computer market. The computer industry seeks to develop
    and market increasingly smaller and lighter personal computers.
    This need has increased demand for high-performance ICs that
    monitor power usage, enabling manufacturers to use smaller
    batteries and extend battery life between charges. In addition,
    we currently supply a variety of ICs used in this market for
    enhanced audio input and output capability for business and
    entertainment applications.

Research
    and Development  

Our markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and
    advances. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the
    design and development of new products and manufacturing
    processes, and the improvement of existing products and
    manufacturing processes. We spent approximately
    $537 million during fiscal 2006 on the design, development
    and improvement of new and existing products and manufacturing
    processes, compared to approximately $497 million during
    fiscal 2005 and approximately $514 million during fiscal
    2004.

Our research and development strategy focuses on building
    technical leadership in core technologies for signal sensing,
    conditioning, conversion and processing. In support of our
    research and development activities, we employ thousands of
    engineers involved in product and manufacturing process
    development at over 30 design centers and manufacturing sites
    located throughout the world.

4

Table of Contents   

Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property Rights  

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our
    technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights,
    trademarks and trade secret laws. We have a program to file
    applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks
    in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we
    believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek
    to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by
    nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate
    confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial
    number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in
    other countries. As of October 28, 2006, we held 1,202
    U.S. patents and had 513 non-provisional pending
    U.S. patent applications. There can be no assurance,
    however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced
    against infringing products in every jurisdiction. While our
    patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets provide some
    advantage and protection, we believe our competitive position
    and future success is largely determined by such factors as the
    system and application knowledge, innovative skills,
    technological expertise, and management ability and experience
    of our personnel, the range and success of new products being
    developed by us, our market brand recognition and ongoing
    marketing efforts, customer service and technical support. It is
    generally our policy to seek patent protection for significant
    inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in certain
    cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant
    inventions, if other protection, such as maintaining the
    invention as a trade secret, to be more advantageous. We also
    have trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business to
    distinguish genuine Analog Devices products and we maintain
    cooperative advertising programs to promote our brands and
    identify products containing genuine Analog Devices components.
    In addition, we have registered certain of our mask sets, which
    are akin to the blueprint for building an IC, under the
    Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984.

There can be no assurance that any patent will issue on pending
    applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive
    protection for the technology or product covered by it. There
    also can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent
    similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that our
    confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, wafer
    foundries and other suppliers and vendors will be adequate to
    protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of countries in which
    we design, manufacture and market our products may afford little
    or no effective protection of our proprietary technology.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims
    and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property
    rights, including claims arising under our contractual
    indemnification of our customers. We have received from time to
    time, and may receive in the future, claims from third parties
    asserting that our products or processes infringe their patents
    or other intellectual property rights. In the event a third
    party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a
    license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms,
    or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop
    production of products incorporating that intellectual property,
    and our operating results could be materially and adversely
    affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or
    other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us
    against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be
    costly and divert the attention of our key personnel. See
    Note 13 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information concerning pending litigation that involves us.
    An adverse outcome in these matters or other litigation could
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position or on our consolidated results of operations or cash
    flows in the period in which the litigation is resolved.

Sales
    Channels  

We sell our products in North America and internationally
    through a direct sales force, third-party distributors,
    independent sales representatives and via our worldwide website
    on the Internet.

Approximately 51% of our fiscal 2006 revenue was derived from
    sales made through distributors. Revenue is deferred on sales
    made through distributors until the distributors resell our
    products to the end customer, known as  100% sell out 
    or  100% sell through  in the industry. These
    distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products.
    Some of them also sell products competitive with our products,
    including those for which we are an alternate source. Sales to
    certain distributors are made under agreements that provide
    protection to the distributors for their inventory of our
    products including limited product return privileges and
    protection against price reductions and products that are
    slow-moving or that we have discontinued.

5

Table of Contents   

Approximately 25% of our fiscal 2006 net sales were to
    customers in North America. As of October 28, 2006, we had
    11 direct sales offices in the United States.

Approximately 22% of our fiscal 2006 net sales were to
    customers in Europe. As of October 28, 2006, we had direct
    sales offices in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France,
    Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United
    Kingdom.

Approximately 19% of our fiscal 2006 net sales were to
    customers in Japan. Approximately 13% of our fiscal
    2006 net sales were to customers in China and approximately
    21% were to customers elsewhere in Asia, principally Taiwan and
    Korea. As of October 28, 2006, we had direct sales offices
    in the Asia region in China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea,
    Singapore and Taiwan.

We also have sales representatives
     and/or 
    distributors in over 45 countries outside North America,
    including countries where we also have direct sales offices. For
    further detail regarding revenue and financial information about
    geographic areas, see our Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Note 4 in the related Notes contained in Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our worldwide technical direct field sales efforts are supported
    by an extensive promotional program that includes editorial
    coverage and paid advertising in trade publications, direct mail
    programs, promotional brochures, technical seminars and
    participation in trade shows. We publish and distribute
    full-length databooks, product catalogs, applications guides,
    technical handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual
    products. We also provide product and application information
    and sell products via our worldwide website on the Internet. We
    maintain a staff of field application engineers who aid
    customers in incorporating our products into their products.

We have tens of thousands of customers worldwide. Our largest
    single customer, excluding distributors, represented
    approximately 3% of our fiscal 2006 net sales, and our 20
    largest customers, excluding distributors, accounted for
    approximately 29% of our fiscal 2006 net sales.

Seasonality  

Sales to customers during our first fiscal quarter are sometimes
    lower than other quarters due to plant shutdowns at some of our
    customers during the holiday season. In general, the seasonality
    for any specific period of time has not had a material impact on
    our results of operations. In addition, as explained in our risk
    factors, our revenue is more likely to be influenced on a
    quarter to quarter basis by cyclicality in the semiconductor
    industry.

Foreign
    Operations  

Through subsidiaries and affiliates, we conduct business in
    numerous countries outside the United States. During fiscal
    2006, approximately 75% of our revenue was derived from
    customers in international markets. Our international business
    is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign
    operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
    rates and controls, import and export controls, and other laws,
    policies and regulations of foreign governments. Although we
    engage in hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to
    currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance
    that our competitive position will not be adversely affected by
    changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against
    other currencies.

We have manufacturing facilities outside the United States in
    Ireland and the Philippines. In addition to being exposed to the
    ongoing economic cycles in the semiconductor industry, we are
    also subject to the economic and political risks inherent in
    international operations and their impact on the United States
    economy in general, including the risks associated with ongoing
    uncertainties and political and economic instability in many
    countries around the world as well as the economic disruption
    from acts of terrorism, and the response to them by the United
    States and its allies. Other business risks associated with
    international operations include increased managerial
    complexities, air transportation disruptions, expropriation,
    currency controls, currency exchange rate movement, additional
    costs related to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rate
    increases, exposure to different business practices and legal
    standards, particularly with respect to price protection and
    intellectual property, trade and travel restrictions, pandemics,
    import and export license requirements and restrictions,
    difficulties in staffing and managing worldwide operations, and
    accounts receivable collections.

6

Table of Contents   

Production
    and Raw Materials  

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a
    sequence of semiconductor production steps that include wafer
    fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer into individual
     chips,  or dice, assembly of the dice into packages
    and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form.
    The raw materials used to manufacture these devices include
    silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including liquefied
    gases), precious metals and ceramic and plastic used for
    packaging.

We develop and employ a wide variety of proprietary
    manufacturing processes that are specifically tailored for use
    in fabricating high-performance linear, mixed-signal and MEMS
    ICs. We also use bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication processes.

Our IC products are fabricated both at our production facilities
    and by third-party wafer fabricators. Most of our analog
    products are manufactured in our own wafer fabrication
    facilities using proprietary processes. Our DSP products, and a
    portion of our analog products, are manufactured at third-party
    wafer-fabrication foundries using sub-micron digital CMOS
    processes. We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington
    and Cambridge, Massachusetts and Limerick, Ireland. We also
    operate test facilities located in the Philippines and use
    third-party subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our
    products. On November 9, 2006, we closed our Sunnyvale,
    California wafer fabrication facility and transferred virtually
    all of the production of products manufactured there to our
    facility in Wilmington, Massachusetts.

Capital spending in fiscal 2006 was $129.3 million,
    compared with $85.5 million in fiscal 2005. We currently
    plan to make capital expenditures of approximately
    $175 million in fiscal 2007.

Our products require a wide variety of components and raw
    materials, most of which we purchase from third-party suppliers.
    We have multiple sources for many of the components and
    materials we purchase and incorporate into our products.
    However, a large portion of our external wafer purchases are
    from sole-source suppliers, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor
    Manufacturing Company (TSMC). If these sole-source suppliers are
    unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver sufficient
    quantities of components to us, on the time schedule and of the
    quality that we require, we may be forced to seek to engage
    additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in
    additional expenses and delays in product development or
    shipment of product to our customers. Although we have
    experienced shortages of components from time to time, these
    items have generally been available to us as needed.

Backlog  

Backlog at the end of fiscal 2006 was approximately
    $390 million, up from approximately $356 million at
    the end of fiscal 2005. We define backlog as of a particular
    date as firm orders with a customer or distributor requested
    delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is impacted by the
    tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead times available
    from suppliers, including us, in periods of depressed demand. In
    periods of increased demand, there is a tendency towards longer
    lead times that has the effect of increasing backlog and, in
    some instances, we may not have manufacturing capacity
    sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the
    semiconductor industry, we allow most orders to be canceled or
    deliveries delayed by customers without significant penalty.
    Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at any time should not
    be used as an indication of our future revenue.

In some of our markets where end-user demand may be particularly
    volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders
    that require us to manufacture product and have it available for
    shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a
    binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.
    At any given time, this situation could affect a portion of our
    backlog. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing
    costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the
    risk of cancelation of orders leading to a sharp reduction of
    sales and backlog. Further, those orders may be for products
    that meet the customer s unique requirements so that those
    canceled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of
    unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory
    write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles, for
    some of our products that are subject to these uncertainties,
    the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.

7

Table of Contents   

Government
    Contracts  

We estimate that approximately 3% of our fiscal 2006 revenue was
    attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government
    contractors and subcontractors. Our government contract business
    is predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-price
    subcontracts. All such contracts and subcontracts contain
    standard provisions relating to termination at the election of
    the United States government.

Acquisitions,
    Divestitures and Investments  

An element of our business strategy involves expansion through
    the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies
    that allow us to complement our existing product offerings,
    expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce
    or enhance our technological capabilities. From time to time, we
    consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen our
    business.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we completed the sale to
    Ikanos Communications, Inc. of our DSP-based digital subscriber
    line (DSL) application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) and
    network processor product line.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we completed a transaction
    with TTPCom Limited (TTPCom), whereby TTPCom transferred to us
    intellectual property, engineering resources, and related assets
    associated with the support and customization of TTPCom s
    GSM/GPRS/EDGE modem software for use on our existing and future
    generations of
    SoftFone   
    baseband processors. As a result, we became the single point of
    contact for both hardware and software support for our new and
    existing wireless handset customers.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we acquired substantially
    all of the outstanding stock of privately held Integrant
    Technologies, Inc., an innovator in the field of
    high-performance analog circuits designed for reconfigurable
    radio frequency (RF) signal processing, and a leading supplier
    of low-power radio tuners that allow mobile communications,
    computer, and consumer devices to receive digital television
    (TV) and digital radio broadcasts.

Also in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we acquired privately
    held AudioAsics A/S, a developer of high-performance, low-power
    microphone and audio signal conditioning technology resulting in
    miniature, low-power audio solutions that provide better sound
    quality in portable consumer and communications products such as
    MP3 players, wireless cellular phones and PDAs.

Competition  

We compete with a number of semiconductor companies in markets
    that are highly competitive. We believe we are one of the
    largest suppliers of high-performance analog and mixed-signal
    processing components. Competitors for our analog and DSP
    products include Broadcom Corporation, Cirrus Logic Inc.,
    Infineon Technologies, Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology
    Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National
    Semiconductor Corporation, NXP Semiconductors, ST
    Microelectronics and Texas Instruments, Inc. Sales of our
    micromachined products currently consist of acceleration sensors
    and gyroscopes, and our main competitors in that market are
    Bosch, Denso Corporation, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.,
    Panasonic, ST Microelectronics, Systron Donner and VTI
    Technologies.

We believe that competitive performance in the marketplace for
    real-world signal processing components depends upon several
    factors, including technical innovation, product quality and
    reliability, range of products, product price, customer service
    and technical support. We believe our technical innovation
    emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by
    our commitment to strong customer service and technical support,
    enables us to compete in our chosen markets against both foreign
    and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.

Many other companies offer products that compete with our
    products, and some have greater financial, manufacturing,
    technical and marketing resources than we have. Some of our
    competitors may have better established supply or development
    relationships with our current and potential customers.
    Additionally, some formerly independent competitors have been
    purchased by larger companies. Our competitors also include
    emerging companies selling specialized products to markets we
    serve. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
    successfully in the future against existing or new competitors,
    or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by
    increased price competition.

8

Table of Contents   

Environment  

We are committed to protecting the environment and the health
    and safety of our employees, customers and the public. We
    endeavor to adhere to the most stringent standards across all of
    our facilities, to encourage pollution prevention and to strive
    towards continual improvement. We strive to exceed compliance
    with regulatory standards in order to achieve a standard of
    excellence in environmental, health and safety management
    practices as an integral part of our total quality management
    system.

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous
    environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to
    the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain
    chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the
    semiconductor manufacturing process. Compliance with these laws
    and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital
    expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive
    position. There can be no assurance, however, that current or
    future environmental laws and regulations will not impose costly
    requirements upon us. For example, restrictions adopted by the
    European Union regarding the use of hazardous substances have
    recently become applicable, requiring us to transition the
    manufacturing process for over 9,000 of our products. Any
    failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations could result in fines, suspension of production,
    alteration of fabrication processes and legal liability.

Employees  

As of October 28, 2006, we employed approximately 9,800
    individuals worldwide. Our future success depends in large part
    on the continued service of our key technical and senior
    management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract,
    retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those
    highly-skilled design, process, test and applications engineers
    involved in the manufacture of existing products and the
    development of new products and processes. We believe that
    relations with our employees are good; however, the competition
    for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key personnel
    could have a material adverse impact on our results of
    operations and financial condition.

9

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1A.    

RISK
    FACTORS  

Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other
    documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking
    statements contained in this report.

Our
    future revenue and operating results are difficult to predict
    and may materially fluctuate.  

Our future revenue and operating results are difficult to
    predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors,
    including changes in customer demand for our products and for
    end products that incorporate our products, the timing of new
    product announcements or introductions by us, our customers or
    our competitors, competitive pricing pressures, fluctuations in
    manufacturing yields, adequate availability of wafers and other
    raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and test capacity,
    the risk that our backlog could decline significantly, the
    timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders and
    our ability to manage inventory, our ability to hire, retain and
    motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified
    employees to meet the demands of our customers, changes in
    product or customer mix, potential significant
    litigation-related costs, the effect of adverse changes in
    economic conditions in the United States and international
    markets and the effects of public health emergencies, natural
    disasters, terrorist activities, international conflicts and
    other events beyond our control. In addition, the semiconductor
    market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant
    economic downturns. Our business is subject to rapid
    technological changes and there can be no assurance, depending
    on the mix of future business, that products stocked in
    inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As
    a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance
    that we will not experience material fluctuations in future
    revenue and operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. In
    addition, if our revenue and operating results do not meet the
    expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market
    price of our common stock may decline.

Long-term
    contracts are not typical for us and reductions, cancelations or
    delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our
    operating results.  

In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly
    volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders
    that require us to manufacture product and have it available for
    shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a
    binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.
    At any given time, this situation could affect a portion of our
    backlog. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing
    costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the
    risk of cancelation of orders leading to a sharp reduction of
    sales and backlog. Further, those orders may be for products
    that meet the customer s unique requirements so that those
    canceled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of
    unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory
    write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for
    certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties,
    the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.
    Reductions, cancelations or delays in orders for our products
    could adversely affect our operating results.

Our
    future success depends upon our ability to continue to improve
    our products, develop and market new products, and enter new
    markets.  

Our success significantly depends on our continued ability to
    improve our products and develop and market new products.
    Product development and enhancement is often a complex,
    time-consuming and costly process, and there can be no assurance
    that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved
    products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and
    improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance.
    Our products generally must conform to various evolving and
    sometimes competing industry standards, which may adversely
    affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us
    to incur significant costs. In addition, our customers generally
    impose very high quality and reliability standards on our
    products, which often change and may be difficult or costly to
    satisfy. Any inability to satisfy such quality standards or
    comply with industry standards and technical requirements, may
    adversely affect demand for our products and our results of
    operations. In addition, our growth is dependent on our
    continued ability to penetrate new markets where we have limited
    experience and competition is intense. There can be no assurance
    that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our
    existing and new products will meet the requirements of these
    markets, that our products will achieve customer acceptance in
    these markets, that competitors will not force prices to an
    unacceptably low level or take market share from us, or

10

Table of Contents   

that we can achieve or maintain profits in these markets.
    Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or several of our
    end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the
    demand for our products and our results of operations. Also,
    some of our customers in these markets are less established,
    which could subject us to increased credit risk.

We may
    not be able to compete successfully in markets within the
    semiconductor industry in the future.  

Many other companies offer products that compete with our
    products. Some have greater financial, manufacturing, technical
    and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors
    may have better established supply or development relationships
    with our current and potential customers. Additionally, some
    formerly independent competitors have been purchased by larger
    companies. Our competitors also include emerging companies
    selling specialized products in markets we serve. Existing or
    new competitors may develop products or technologies that more
    effectively address the demands of our markets with enhanced
    features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater
    levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition in
    certain markets has resulted in and may continue to result in
    declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss
    of market share in such markets. There can be no assurance that
    we will be able to compete successfully in the future against
    existing or new competitors, or that our operating results will
    not be adversely affected by increased price competition.

We rely
    on third-party subcontractors and manufacturers for some
    industry-standard wafers and assembly/test services, and
    therefore cannot control their availability or conditions of
    supply.  

We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on assembly and test
    subcontractors and on third-party wafer fabricators to supply
    most of our wafers that can be manufactured using
    industry-standard submicron processes. This reliance involves
    several risks, including reduced control over availability,
    capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields,
    quality assurance and costs. Additionally, we utilize
    third-party wafer fabricators as sole-source suppliers,
    primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. These
    suppliers manufacture components in accordance with our
    proprietary designs and specifications. We have no written
    supply agreements with these sole-source suppliers and purchase
    our custom components through individual purchase orders. In
    addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services
    to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry
    demand may result in capacity constraints. If these sole-source
    suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver
    sufficient quantities of components to us on the time schedule
    and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to seek to
    engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result
    in additional expenses and delays in product development or
    shipment of product to our customers.

We may
    not be able to satisfy increasing demand for our products, and
    increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower
    prices.  

The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted
    in sustained and short-term periods when demand for our products
    has increased or decreased rapidly. During these periods of
    rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be
    sufficient to satisfy the available demand. In addition, we may
    not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a
    sufficiently timely manner, or locate suitable third-party
    suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in demand for our
    existing products or to the demand for new products requested by
    our customers, and our current or future business could be
    materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our
    operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of
    increased demand for our products, and such demand does not
    materialize at the pace at which we expect, our operating
    results may be adversely affected. These capacity expansions by
    us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to
    overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price
    erosion that would adversely impact our operating results.

Our
    revenue may not increase enough to offset the expense of
    additional capacity.  

We, and the semiconductor industry generally, expand production
    facilities and access to third-party foundries in response to
    periods of increased demand which can cause operating expenses
    to increase. Should customer demand fail to increase or should
    the semiconductor industry enter a period of reduced customer
    demand, our financial position and results of operations could
    be adversely impacted as a result of increased operating
    expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset
    impairment charges.

11

Table of Contents   

We may be
    unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may
    limit our ability to compete effectively.  

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our
    intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, copyright,
    trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure
    agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary
    technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our
    proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that
    competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain,
    copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. Moreover,
    the laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture
    and market our products may afford little or no effective
    protection of our proprietary technology.

There can no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued
    patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In
    addition, any of our existing or future patents may be
    challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights
    granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful
    protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending
    applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and
    applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective
    enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our
    patents do not adequately protect our technology, our
    competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our
    competitors may also be able to develop similar technology
    independently or design around our patents. Other companies or
    individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of
    semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to
    obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from
    making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are
    found to be valid. There can be no assurance that we would be
    able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all.

We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to
    control access to and distribution of our technologies,
    documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these
    efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy,
    disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology
    without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek
    employment with our business partners, customers or competitors,
    and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of
    our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of
    such future employment.

We are
    involved in frequent litigation regarding intellectual property
    rights, which could be costly to bring or defend and could
    require us to redesign products or pay significant
    royalties.  

The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims
    and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property
    rights, including claims arising under our contractual
    indemnification of our customers. We have received from time to
    time, and may receive in the future, claims from third parties
    asserting that our products or processes infringe their patents
    or other intellectual property rights. In the event a third
    party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a
    license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms,
    or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop
    production of products incorporating that intellectual property,
    and our operating results could be materially and adversely
    affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or
    other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us
    against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be
    costly and divert the attention of our key personnel. See
    Note 13 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information concerning certain pending litigation that
    involves us. An adverse outcome in these matters or other
    litigation could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or on our consolidated results
    of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
    litigation is resolved.

If we do
    not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our
    business strategy will be limited.  

Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued
    service of our executive officers and key management and
    technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and
    on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate
    qualified personnel. The competition for these employees is
    intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key
    personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating
    results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect
    on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key
    personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue
    to attract qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key
    person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees.

12

Table of Contents   

To remain
    competitive we may need to acquire other companies or purchase
    or license technology from third parties in order to introduce
    new products and services or enhance our existing products and
    services.  

An element of our business strategy involves expansion through
    the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies
    that allow us to complement our existing product offerings,
    expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce
    or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to
    find businesses that have the technology or resources we need
    and, if we find such businesses, may not be able to purchase or
    license the technology or resources on commercially favorable
    terms or at all. Acquisitions and technology licenses are
    difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons,
    including the cost of potential transactions, competition among
    prospective buyers and licensees and the need for regulatory
    approvals. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may
    need to raise additional funds by selling our stock or borrowing
    money. We may not be able to find financing on favorable terms,
    and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our
    existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights
    that are superior to the rights of our common stockholders.
    Acquisitions also involve a number of risks, including:

difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and
    personnel with our existing businesses;

diversion of management attention in connection with both
    negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets;

strain on managerial and operational resources as management
    tries to oversee larger operations;

the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which
    may be significant;

potential loss of key employees;

exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired
    companies; and

increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation.

If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not
    realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition,
    which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.

We rely
    on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable
    areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and
    services.  

We, and many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on
    internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and
    other sub-contractors in geologically unstable locations around
    the world. This reliance involves risks associated with the
    impact of earthquakes on us and the semiconductor industry,
    including temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of
    key raw materials and equipment and availability of key services
    including transport. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of
    our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or
    third party wafer-fabrication foundries, as a result of fire,
    natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise,
    would have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.

We are
    exposed to business, economic, political and other risks through
    our significant worldwide operations.  

During fiscal 2006, approximately 75% of our revenue was derived
    from customers in international markets. Although we engage in
    hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange
    rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that our
    competitive position will not be adversely affected by changes
    in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against other
    currencies. Potential interest rate increases, particularly in
    the United States and China, as well as high energy costs could
    have an adverse impact on industrial and consumer spending
    patterns and could adversely impact demand for our products. We
    have manufacturing facilities outside the United States in
    Ireland and the Philippines. In addition to being exposed to the
    ongoing economic cycles in the semiconductor industry, we are
    also subject to the economic and political risks inherent in
    international operations and their impact on the United States
    economy in general, including the risks associated with ongoing
    uncertainties and political and economic instability in many
    countries around the world as well as the economic disruption
    from acts of terrorism, and the response to them by the United
    States and its allies. Other business risks associated with
    international operations include increased managerial
    complexities, air transportation disruptions, expropriation,
    currency

13

Table of Contents   

controls, currency exchange rate movement, additional costs
    related to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rate increases,
    exposure to different business practices and legal standards,
    particularly with respect to price protection and intellectual
    property, trade and travel restrictions, pandemics, import and
    export license requirements and restrictions, difficulties in
    staffing and managing worldwide operations, and accounts
    receivable collections.

Our
    future operating results are dependent on the performance of
    independent distributors and sales representatives.  

A significant portion of our sales are through independent
    distributors that are not under our control. These independent
    distributors generally represent product lines offered by
    several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts
    applied to our products or terminate their representation of us.
    We generally do not require letters of credit from our
    distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable
    default or bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to
    collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our
    results of operations. Termination of a significant distributor,
    whether at our initiative or the distributor s initiative,
    could disrupt our current business. If we are unable to find
    suitable replacements in the event of terminations by
    significant distributors or sales representatives, our operating
    results could be adversely affected.

Our
    manufacturing processes are highly complex and may be
    interrupted.  

We have manufacturing processes that utilize a substantial
    amount of technology as the fabrication of integrated circuits
    is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities,
    contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in
    the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer
    manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer
    breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of
    wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be
    nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in
    semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes
    could become unstable. This instability could result in
    manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position or results of
    operations.

Our stock
    price may be volatile.  

The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the
    past and may be volatile in the future, as it may be
    significantly affected by the following factors:

actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating
    results;

changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our
    failure to perform in line with such estimates;

changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;

announcements by us or our competitors of significant new
    products, technical innovations, acquisitions or dispositions,
    litigation or capital commitments; and

departures of key personnel.

The stock market has historically experienced volatility,
    especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has
    been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These
    market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless
    of our operating results.

ITEM 1B.    

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

14

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2.    

PROPERTIES  

Our corporate headquarters is located in Norwood, Massachusetts.
    Manufacturing and other operations are conducted in several
    locations worldwide. The following tables provide certain
    information about our principal general offices and
    manufacturing facilities:

Principal Properties 

Owned: 

Use 

Floor Space 

Wilmington, MA

Wafer fabrication, testing,
    engineering, marketing and administrative offices

586,200 sq. ft.

Cavite, Philippines

Wafer probe and testing,
    warehouse, engineering and administrative offices

465,900 sq. ft.

Limerick, Ireland

Wafer fabrication, wafer probe and
    testing, engineering and administrative offices

405,000 sq. ft.

Westwood, MA

Engineering, administrative
    offices and warehouse

100,500 sq. ft.

Greensboro, NC

Product testing, engineering and
    administrative offices

98,700 sq. ft.

San Jose, CA

Engineering, administrative offices

76,000  sq. ft

Manila, Philippines

Components assembly and testing,
    engineering and administrative offices

74,000 sq. ft.

(a)  

We ceased production at this wafer fabrication facility on
    November 9, 2006. For additional information, see
    Note 5 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K.  

In addition to the principal leased properties listed in the
    above table, we also lease sales offices and other premises at
    23 locations in the United States and 35 locations overseas
    under operating lease agreements. These leases expire at various
    dates through the year 2020. We do not anticipate experiencing
    significant difficulty in retaining occupancy of any of our
    manufacturing, office or sales facilities through lease renewals
    prior to expiration or through
     month-to-month 
    occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent facilities. For
    information concerning our obligations under all operating
    leases see Note 12 in the Notes to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

15

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3.    

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

Tentative
    Settlement of the SEC s Previously Announced Stock Option
    Investigation  

In the Company s
     Form 10-K 
    filing dated November 30, 2004, the Company disclosed that
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had initiated an
    inquiry into its stock option granting practices, focusing on
    options that were granted shortly before the issuance of
    favorable financial results. On November 15, 2005, the
    Company announced that it had reached a tentative settlement
    with the SEC.

Since receiving notice of this inquiry, the Company has
    cooperated with the SEC. The Company and its President and CEO,
    Mr. Jerald G. Fishman, have made an offer of settlement to
    the Staff of the SEC, which is subject to agreement regarding
    the specific language of the SEC s administrative order and
    other settlement documents. The SEC Staff has decided to
    recommend the offer of settlement to the Commission. A final
    settlement is subject to review and approval by the Commission.

The contemplated settlement addresses two separate issues. The
    first issue concerns the Company s disclosure regarding
    grants of options to employees and directors prior to the
    release of favorable financial results. Specifically, the issue
    relates to options granted to employees  ( including
    officers )  of the Company on November 30, 1999 and to
    employees  ( including officers )  and directors of
    the Company on November 10, 2000. The SEC settlement would
    conclude that the Company should have made disclosures in its
    proxy filings to the effect that the Company priced these stock
    options prior to releasing favorable financial results.

The second issue addressed by the tentative settlement concerns
    the grant dates for options granted to employees
     ( including officers )  in 1998 and 1999, and the
    grant date for options granted to employees (including
    officers )  and directors in 2001. Specifically, the
    settlement would conclude that the appropriate grant date for
    the September 4, 1998 options should have been
    September 8th (which is one trading day later than the
    date that was used to price the options); the appropriate grant
    date for the November 30, 1999 options should have been
    November 29th (which is one trading day earlier than
    the date that was used); and the appropriate grant date for the
    July 18, 2001 options should have been
    July 26th (which is five trading days after the
    original date).

In connection with the contemplated settlement, the Company
    would consent to a
     cease-and-desist 
    order under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
    and
     Rule 10b-5 
    thereunder, would pay a civil money penalty of $3 million,
    and would reprice options granted to Mr. Fishman and other
    directors in certain years. Options granted to all other
    employees would be excluded from the repricing. Mr. Fishman
    would consent to a
     cease-and-desist 
    order under Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the
    Securities Act, would pay a civil money penalty of
    $1 million, and would make a disgorgement payment with
    respect to options granted in certain years. With the exception
    of options granted in 1998, Mr. Fishman has not exercised
    or sold any of the options identified in this matter. The
    Company and Mr. Fishman would settle this matter without
    admitting or denying the Commission s findings.

The Company has determined that no restatement of its historical
    financial results would be necessary due to the proposed
    settlement, because the effects of using revised measurement
    dates for options granted in 1998, 1999 and 2001 are not
    material to any of the fiscal years 1998 through 2005, based on
    the materiality guidelines contained in SAB 99. If a
    stock-based compensation charge had been taken as a result of
    the revised measurement dates for these option grants to all
    employees (including officers) and directors, the net income of
    the Company for fiscal years 1998 through 2005 would have been
    reduced by $21.8 million in total. During this period, the
    Company earned cumulative net income of over $2.5 billion.
    There would be no impact on revenue, cash flow from operations,
    or shareholders  equity as a result of using the revised
    measurement dates. The impact on net income in individual fiscal
    years would have been as follows: fiscal 1998
    ($0.2 million), fiscal 1999 ($1.4 million), fiscal
    2000 ($1.8 million), fiscal 2001 ($3.7 million),
    fiscal 2002 ($8.1 million), fiscal 2003
    ($6.1 million), fiscal 2004 ($0.5 million).

Other
    Legal Proceedings  

On November 6, 2003, Enron Corporation commenced a
    proceeding in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
    Southern District of New York. On December 1, 2003, Enron
    filed an amended complaint to add the Company as a defendant in
    such proceeding. The amended complaint alleged that transfers
    made by Enron in satisfaction of obligations it had under
    commercial paper were recoverable as preferential transfers and
    fraudulent transfers and

16

Table of Contents   

subject to avoidance under the United States Bankruptcy Code. It
    was alleged that payments made in premature satisfaction of
    obligations under commercial paper totaling approximately
    $20 million were recoverable from J.P. Morgan
    Securities, Inc., Fleet Capital Markets, Fleet National Bank
     and/or  the
    Company. The Company sold $20 million of Enron commercial
    paper to Fleet and did not enter into any direct transactions
    with Enron. The Company has reached a settlement with Enron,
    pursuant to which we contributed $2.3 million towards a
    settlement of claims brought by Enron against both the Company
    and Bank of America (as successor to Fleet Capital Markets and
    Fleet National Bank). The settlement was submitted to and
    approved by the Bankruptcy Court. In accordance with the terms
    of the settlement, a stipulation of dismissal of all claims
    against the Company with prejudice has been executed by Enron,
    Bank of America and the Company and was filed with the
    Bankruptcy Court on November 9, 2006. The Bankruptcy Court
    entered the stipulation of dismissal on November 13, 2006.

On June 14, 2005, Biax Corporation filed its first amended
    complaint for patent infringement in the United States District
    Court for the Eastern District of Texas against the Company and
    Intel Corporation, alleging that the Company infringed three
    patents owned by Biax relating to parallel processors. Prior to
    the filing of the first amended complaint, the Company was
    unaware of Biax or this action. The first amended complaint
    seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages with interest, as
    well as Biax s costs, expenses and fees. On August 3,
    2005, the Company filed an answer and counterclaimed against
    Biax. In the counterclaim, the Company seeks rulings that the
    patents are not infringed, the patents are invalid and the
    patents are unenforceable. On November 7, 2005, Biax filed
    a second amended complaint alleging that the Company infringed
    two additional patents. The case is currently in the discovery
    phase. The Company intends to vigorously defend against these
    allegations. The Company is unable at this time to predict the
    outcome of this litigation; however, the Company believes that
    the final disposition of this matter will not have a material
    adverse effect on the Company or its financial position.

On or about May 5, 2006, Mr. Gregory Bender filed a
    complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District
    Court for the Eastern District of Texas against the Company.
    Prior to the filing of the complaint, the Company was unaware of
    Mr. Bender or this action. In his complaint,
    Mr. Bender alleges that certain of the Company s
    amplifier products infringe a patent Mr. Bender owns. He
    seeks unspecified damages as well as a permanent injunction
    enjoining the Company from infringing his patent.
    Mr. Bender has served his complaint on the Company and the
    Company has filed an answer. The Company intends to vigorously
    defend against these allegations. The Company cannot predict the
    outcome of this matter, but believes that the disposition of the
    matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company or
    its financial position.

In May 2006, the Company received a demand from a purported
    shareholder with respect to certain grants of options made to
    directors and officers of the Company during the years 1998,
    1999 and 2001. That demand seeks, among other things ,  the
    commencement of an action by the directors of the Company on
    behalf of the Company against those directors and officers for
    breach of fiduciary duties arising from the granting of the
    options. A special committee of the Board of Directors of the
    Company was formed to review the allegations contained in the
    demand and to respond appropriately. After reviewing the facts
    underlying the allegations, the special committee decided to
    reject the purported shareholder s demand. The Company does
    not know whether the purported shareholder will take further
    action.

In May 2006, the Company received a document subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York
    requesting records from 2000 to the present relating to the
    Company s granting of stock options. The Company believes
    that the options at issue in this matter are the same option
    grants which have been the subject of investigation by the SEC.
    The Company is cooperating with the office of the
    U.S. Attorney in connection with this subpoena. The Company
    cannot predict the outcome of this matter, but believes the
    disposition of the matter will not have a material adverse
    effect on the Company or its financial position.

On June 12, 2006, a purported derivative complaint was
    filed in the United States District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts naming the Company as nominal defendant and also
    naming as defendants certain officers and directors of the
    Company. The complaint alleged purported violations of state and
    federal law in connection with the Company s option
    granting practices during the years 1998, 1999 and 2001,
    including violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, breaches of fiduciary duties of care,
    loyalty and good faith, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate
    assets, and unjust enrichment. The complaint sought monetary
    damages in unspecified amounts, as well as equitable and
    injunctive relief. On October 12, 2006, the United States
    District Court for the

17

Table of Contents   

District of Massachusetts dismissed the plaintiff s
    complaint with prejudice and without leave to amend. The Company
    does not know whether the plaintiff will appeal the court s
    decision or otherwise pursue the action further.

In August 2006, the Company received a demand from a purported
    shareholder to inspect the Company s books and records
    relating to certain grants of options made to directors and
    officers of the Company at diverse times. On September 8,
    2006, the Company responded to the letter and indicated that the
    purported shareholder was not entitled to the documents sought
    in the demand. The Company does not know whether the purported
    shareholder will take further action.

On October 13, 2006, a purported class action complaint was
    filed in the United States District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts on behalf of participants in the Company s
    Investment Partnership Plan from October 5, 2000 to the
    present. The complaint named as defendants the Company, certain
    officers and directors, and the Company s Investment
    Partnership Plan Administration Committee. The complaint alleges
    purported violations of federal law in connection with the
    Company s option granting practices during the years 1998,
    1999, 2000, and 2001, including breaches of fiduciary duties
    owed to participants and beneficiaries of the Company s
    Investment Partnership Plan under the Employee Retirement Income
    Security Act. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages,
    as well as equitable and injunctive relief. The Company intends
    to vigorously defend against these allegations. Although the
    Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the asserted
    claims, it is unable at this time to predict the outcome of this
    proceeding.

From time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
    Company s business, various claims, charges and litigation
    are asserted or commenced against the Company arising from, or
    related to, contractual matters, patents, trademarks, personal
    injury, environmental matters, product liability, insurance
    coverage and personnel and employment disputes. As to such
    claims and litigation the Company can give no assurance that it
    will prevail.

While the Company does not believe that any of the matters
    described above will have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, an adverse outcome of any of
    these matters is possible and could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s consolidated results of operations
    or cash flows in the quarter or annual period in which one or
    more of these matters are resolved.

18

Table of Contents   

ITEM 4.    

SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders
    during the last quarter of the fiscal year ended
    October 28, 2006.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY  

The following table sets forth (i) the name, age and
    position of each of our executive officers and (ii) the
    business experience of each person named in the table during at
    least the past five years. There is no family relationship among
    any of the executive officers.

Executive Officer 

Age 

Position(s) 

Business Experience 

Ray Stata

72

Chairman of the Board

Chairman of the Board since 1973;
    Chief Executive Officer from 1973 to November 1996; President
    from 1971 to November 1991.

Jerald G. Fishman

61

President, Chief Executive Officer
    and Director

Chief Executive Officer since
    November 1996; President and Director since November 1991;
    Executive Vice President from 1988 to November 1991; Group Vice
    President   Components from 1982 to 1988.

Samuel H. Fuller

60

Vice President, Research and
    Development

Vice President, Research and
    Development since March 1998; Vice President of Research and
    Chief Scientist of Digital Equipment Corp. from 1983 to 1998.

William N. Giudice

52

Vice President and General
    Manager, Micromachined Products Division

Vice President and General
    Manager, Micromachined Products Division since January 2003;
    President, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Telephotonics Inc.,
    an optical components company, from March 2001 to 2003; Vice
    President and General Manager of Conexant Systems Inc. from
    March 2000 to March 2001; Co-founder, CEO, President, and
    Chairman of the Board of Maker Communications Inc. from 1994 to
    March 2000.

Robert R. Marshall

52

Vice President, Worldwide
    Manufacturing

Vice President, Worldwide
    Manufacturing since February 1994; Vice President,
    Manufacturing, Limerick Site, Analog Devices, B.V.  
    Limerick, Ireland from November 1991 to February 1994; Plant
    Manager, Analog Devices, B.V.   Limerick, Ireland from
    January 1991 to November 1991.

William A. Martin

47

Treasurer

Treasurer since March 1993;
    Assistant Treasurer from October 1991 to March 1993; Manager of
    Treasury Finance from March 1987 to October 1991; Manager of
    International Treasury from October 1985 to March 1987.

19

Table of Contents   

Executive Officer 

Age 

Position(s) 

Business Experience 

William Matson

47

Vice President, Human Resources

Vice President, Human Resources
    since November 2006; Chief Human Resource Officer of Lenevo, an
    international computer manufacturer, From January 2005 to June
    2006; General Manager of IBM Business Transformation Outsourcing
    from September 2003 to April 2005; Vice President, Human
    Resources of IBM Asia Pacific Region from December 1999 to
    September 2003.

Robert McAdam

56

Vice President, Analog
    Semiconductor Components

Vice President and General
    Manager, Analog Semiconductor Components since February 1994;
    Vice President and General Manager, Analog Devices,
    B.V.   Limerick, Ireland from January 1991 to February
    1994; Product Line Manager, Analog Devices, B.V.  
    Limerick, Ireland from October 1988 to January 1991.

Brian P. McAloon

56

Vice President, DSP and Systems
    Products Group

Vice President, DSP and Systems
    Products Group since March 2001; Vice President, Sales from May
    1992 to March 2001; Vice President, Sales and
    Marketing   Europe and Southeast Asia from 1990 to
    1992; General Manager, Analog Devices, B.V.  
    Limerick, Ireland from 1987 to 1990.

Joseph E. McDonough

59

Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer

Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer since November 1991; Vice President since 1988
    and Treasurer from 1985 to March 1993; Director of Taxes from
    1983 to 1985.

Vincent Roche

46

Vice President, Worldwide Sales

Vice President, Worldwide Sales
    since March 2001; Vice President and General Manager, Silicon
    Valley Business Units and Computer & Networking from
    1999 to March 2001; Product Line Director from 1995 to 1999;
    Product Marketing Manager from 1988 to 1995.

Margaret K. Seif

45

Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary

Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary since January 2006; Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary of RSA Security Inc. from January 2000 to
    November 2005; Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of
    RSA Security Inc. from June 1998 to January 2000.

20

Table of Contents   

PART II  

ITEM 5.    

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol ADI. The tables below set forth the high and low
    sales prices per share of our common stock on the New York Stock
    Exchange and the dividends declared for each quarterly period
    within our two most recent fiscal years.

Dividends
    Declared Per Outstanding Share of Common Stock  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, on November 13,
    2006, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of
    $0.16 per outstanding share of common stock. The dividend
    will be paid on December 13, 2006 to all shareholders of
    record at the close of business on November 24, 2006.

Information regarding the Company s equity compensation
    plans and the securities authorized for issuance thereunder is
    set forth in Item 12 below.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

(a)  

The average price paid per share of stock repurchased under the
    stock repurchase program includes the commissions paid to the
    brokers. 

(b)  

Repurchased pursuant to the stock repurchase program publicly
    announced on August 12, 2004, as amended on May 11,
    2005, under which our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of our
    common stock. On March 14, 2006, our Board of Directors
    authorized the repurchase by us of an additional $1 billion
    of our common stock, increasing the total amount of our common
    stock we can repurchase from $1 billion to $2 billion
    of our common stock. Under the repurchase program, we may
    repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock from time to
    time in the open market and through privately negotiated  

21

Table of Contents   

transactions. Unless terminated earlier by resolution of our
    Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we
    have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the
    repurchase program. 

The number of holders of record of our common stock at
    October 27, 2006 was 3,787. This number does not include
    shareholders for whom shares are held in a  nominee 
    or  street  name. On October 27, 2006, the last
    reported sales price of our common stock on the New York Stock
    Exchange was $31.13 per share.

ITEM 6.    

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

*  

Acquisition-related goodwill is no longer amortized effective in
    fiscal 2003, in accordance with SFAS 142. The Company
    includes the expense associated with stock options in the
    statement of income effective in fiscal 2006 upon the adoption
    of SFAS 123R. 

22

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.    

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (all tabular amounts in thousands except per share
    amounts)  

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking
    statements regarding future events and our future results that
    are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act
    of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). These
    statements are based on current expectations, estimates,
    forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we
    operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words
    such as  expects,   anticipates, 
     targets,   goals,   projects, 
     intends,   plans,   believes, 
     seeks,   estimates,   continues, 
     may,  variations of such words and similar
    expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking
    statements. In addition, any statements that refer to
    projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated
    growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations
    of future events or circumstances are forward-looking
    statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking
    statements are only predictions and are subject to risks,
    uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict,
    including those identified in Part I, Item 1A. Risk
    Factors and elsewhere in our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely
    from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We
    undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking
    statements for any reason.

Results
    of Operations  

Overview  

Net sales increased $184.4 million, or 8% in fiscal 2006,
    from the amount recorded in fiscal 2005. The increase in net
    sales in fiscal 2006 was offset by the impact of a
    $41 million decrease in sales in fiscal 2006 as compared to
    fiscal 2005 as a result of the loss of sales from our DSP-based
    DSL ASIC and network processor product line that we sold in the
    second quarter of fiscal 2006. Net sales declined
    $245 million, or 9%, in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004.

Revenue
    Trends by End Market  

The categorization of sales by end market is determined using a
    variety of data points including the technical characteristics
    of the product, the  sold to  customer information,
    the  ship to  customer information and the end
    customer product or application into which our product will be
    incorporated. As data systems for capturing and tracking this
    data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end
    market can vary over time and when

23

Table of Contents   

this occurs we reclassify sales by end market for prior periods.
    Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the
    sizing, or the underlying trends of results within each end
    market.

Industrial    Revenue from products sold into
    the industrial end market (which includes factory automation,
    scientific and medical instrumentation, semiconductor automatic
    test equipment (ATE), defense electronics and automotive
    applications) increased 15% in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
    2005. The increase reflects a broad based increase in demand for
    our products across a wide range of customers in this end
    market. The industrial end market represented approximately 42%
    of our total revenue in fiscal 2006. Sales to customers in the
    industrial end market decreased 1% from fiscal 2004 to fiscal
    2005 as a result of a decline in revenues from our customers in
    the automatic test equipment market in the first half of fiscal
    2005. The industrial end market represented approximately 39%
    and 36% of our total revenue in fiscal years 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Computer    Revenue from products sold into the
    computer end market declined 10% in fiscal 2006 as compared to
    fiscal 2005. The decline was primarily the result of refocusing
    our power management portfolio, lower sales of our personal
    computer audio codecs and an overall slow down in the personal
    computer market. The computer end market represented
    approximately 12% of our total revenue in fiscal 2006. Revenue
    from products sold into the computer end market decreased 11% in
    fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. The computer end market
    represented approximately 14% of our total revenue in fiscal
    years 2005 and 2004.

Communications    Revenue from products sold
    into the communications end market increased 2% in fiscal 2006
    compared to fiscal 2005 as a result of an increase in sales of
    our products used in basestations. These increases were offset
    by decreases in wireless handset revenue and decreases in sales
    to networking customers. The sales decline attributable to
    networking customers was approximately $41 million and was
    the result of the loss of sales from our DSP-based DSL ASIC and
    network processor product line, which we sold in the second
    quarter of fiscal 2006. The communications end market
    represented approximately 29% of our total revenue in fiscal
    2006. Revenue from products sold into the communications end
    market declined 23% in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. The
    decline was primarily the result of a significant decline in
    revenues from wireless handset customers in fiscal 2005. The
    communications end market represented approximately 31% and 37%
    of our total revenue in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Consumer    Revenue from products sold into the
    consumer end market increased 16% in fiscal 2006 as compared to
    fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily the result of the
    success of our products in digital home applications and to a
    lesser extent in digital cameras and a broad array of audio and
    video applications. The consumer end market represented
    approximately 17% of our total revenue in fiscal 2006. Revenue
    from sales in the consumer end market increased 9% in fiscal
    2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. The consumer end market
    represented approximately 16% and 13% of our total revenue in
    fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively.

24

Table of Contents   

Revenue
    Trends by Product  

The following table summarizes sales trends by product
    categories showing what proportion of our total sales are
    represented by each product category as well as the annual
    sequential growth rates for each product category. The
    categorization of our products into broad categories is based on
    the characteristics of the individual products, the
    specification of the products and in some cases the specific
    uses that certain products have within applications. The
    categorization of products into categories is therefore subject
    to judgment in some cases and can vary over time. In instances
    where products move between product categories we reclassify the
    amounts in the product categories for all prior periods Such
    reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing,
    or the underlying trends of results within each product category.

*  

We sold our DSP-based DSL ASIC and network processor product
    line in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. 

25

Table of Contents   

The sharp reduction in sales of DSP-based DSL ASIC and network
    processor products was a result of our decision to sell this
    product line in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The wireless
    handset chipset sales are characterized by high sales volumes in
    periods of significant growth followed by periods of sales
    declines as demand for our product declines or shifts to our
    competition.

Revenue
    Trends by Geographic Region  

The percentage of sales by geographic region, based upon point
    of sale, for the last three years is as follows:

There was no major shift in the distribution of revenue by
    geographic region in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The
    percentage of our net sales in China as a percentage of our
    total sales decreased in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004
    primarily as the result of the changes in sales into the
    wireless handset end markets.

Gross
    Margin  

The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily related to
    the increase in utilization of our wafer fabrication facilities
    and increased sales of higher margin products during fiscal 2006
    as compared to fiscal 2005. These increases were partially
    offset by stock-based compensation expense and restructuring
    related expenses, primarily accelerated depreciation of
    $18.3 million, included in cost of sales during fiscal
    2006. Gross margin included an aggregate $30.3 million of
    stock-based compensation expense, restructuring-related and
    acquisition-related expenses in fiscal 2006.

Gross margin declined in fiscal 2005 by 110 basis points
    from the gross margin recorded in fiscal 2004. The decline in
    gross margin was primarily the result of the effect of fixed
    manufacturing costs allocated across lower levels of production
    in fiscal 2005.

Stock-based
    Compensation Expense  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, on October 30,
    2005, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
    (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  or SFAS 123R,
    using the modified prospective application method. Compensation
    cost is calculated on the date of grant using the fair value of
    the options as calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation
    model. The Black-Scholes valuation model requires us to make
    several assumptions. One of the key assumptions is expected
    volatility. For options granted prior to fiscal 2005, we used
    historical volatility to estimate the grant-date fair value of
    stock options. We changed our method of estimating expected
    volatility for all stock options granted after fiscal 2004 from
    exclusively relying on historical volatility to exclusively
    relying on implied volatility. This change was the result of a
    thorough review we undertook which included consultations with
    several third-party advisors. We currently believe that the
    exclusive use of implied volatility results in a more accurate
    estimate of the grant-date fair value of employee stock options
    because it more appropriately reflects the market s current
    expectations of future volatility. Historical volatility during
    the period commensurate with the expected term of our stock
    options over the past several years included a period of time
    during which our stock price experienced unprecedented increases
    and subsequent declines. We believe that this past stock price
    volatility is unlikely to be indicative of future stock price
    behavior.

26

Table of Contents   

As a result of adopting SFAS 123R on October 30, 2005,
    the Company s income before income taxes and net income for
    fiscal 2006, are $73.9 million and $52.6 million
    lower, respectively, than if it had continued to account for
    share-based compensation under APB Opinion 25. Basic and diluted
    earnings per share for the year ended October 28, 2006 are
    $0.15 and $0.14 lower, respectively, than if the Company had
    continued to account for share-based compensation under APB
    Opinion 25.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we accounted for
    share-based payments to employees under APB Opinion No. 25,
     Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , using the
    intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognized no
    compensation cost for employee stock options. The adoption of
    SFAS 123R under the modified prospective application method
    allowed us to recognize compensation cost beginning with the
    effective date (a) based on the requirement of
    SFAS 123R for all share-based payments granted after the
    effective date and (b) based on the requirements of
    SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the
    effective date of SFAS 123R that remain unvested on the
    effective date. Under the modified prospective application
    method, prior periods are not restated for the effect of
    SFAS 123R. We used the graded attribution method to
    recognize expense for all options granted prior to the adoption
    of SFAS 123R. Upon adoption of SFAS 123R on
    October 30, 2005, we switched to the straight-line
    attribution method to recognize expense for all grants made
    after October 29, 2005. The expense associated with the
    unvested portion of the pre-adoption grants will continue to be
    expensed using the graded attribution method.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, on October 18,
    2005, we accelerated the vesting of all unvested stock options
    awarded to employees after December 31, 2000 that had
    exercise prices of $40.00 per share or greater. Options
    issued to our corporate officers and directors were not
    accelerated. Unvested options to purchase approximately
    18 million shares became exercisable as a result of the
    vesting acceleration. Because the exercise price of all the
    modified options was greater than the market price of our
    underlying common stock on the date of the modification, no
    stock-based compensation expense was recorded in the statement
    of income in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25. The
    primary purpose for modifying the terms of these
     out-of-the-money 
    stock options to accelerate their vesting was to eliminate the
    need to recognize the remaining unrecognized non-cash
    compensation expense in our statement of income associated with
    these stock options as measured under SFAS 123,
     Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , because the
    approximately $188 million ($134 million net of tax)
    of future expense associated with these options would have been
    disproportionately high compared to the economic value of the
    options at the date of modification.

As of October 28, 2006, the total compensation cost related
    to unvested awards not yet recognized in the statement of income
    was approximately $156.6 million, which will be recognized
    over a weighted average period of 1.7 years.

See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our adoption of SFAS 123R.

Research
    and Development (R&D)  

R&D expenses for fiscal 2006 increased by
    $39.7 million, or 8%, from the amount recorded in fiscal
    2005. The increase in R&D expense was primarily the result
    of recognizing $33.0 million of stock-based compensation
    expense due to the adoption of SFAS 123R and an increase in
    employee bonus expense. These increases were partially offset by
    the savings realized from the restructuring actions we initiated
    in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and the sale of our
    DSP-based DSL ASIC and network processor product line in the
    second quarter of fiscal 2006.

R&D expenses for fiscal 2005 decreased by $17 million,
    or 3%, from the amount recorded in fiscal 2004. The decrease in
    R&D expenses was caused by a $9 million reduction in
    employee bonus expenses and reductions in other expenses of
    $21 million as a result of our tight control over all other
    engineering expenses throughout the year. These expense
    reductions were partially offset by a $13 million increase
    in salary and employee benefit expenses.

27

Table of Contents   

R&D expense as a percentage of net sales will fluctuate from
     year-to-year 
    depending on the amount of net sales and the success of new
    product development efforts, which we view as critical to our
    future growth. At any point in time we have hundreds of R&D
    projects underway, and we believe that none of these projects is
    material on an individual basis. We expect to continue the
    development of innovative technologies and processes for new
    products, and we believe that a continued commitment to R&D
    is essential in order to maintain product leadership with our
    existing products and to provide innovative new product
    offerings, and therefore, we expect to continue to make
    significant R&D investments in the future.

Selling,
    Marketing, General and Administrative (SMG&A)  

SMG&A expenses for fiscal 2006 increased $55.8 million,
    or 16%, from the levels recorded in fiscal 2005. The increase in
    SMG&A expenses was primarily the result of recording
    $33.2 million of stock-based compensation expense related
    to the adoption of SFAS 123R and higher employee salary,
    employee benefit and employee bonus expenses. These increases
    were partially offset by savings realized from the restructuring
    actions we initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and
    the sale of our DSP-based DSL ASIC and network processor product
    line in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

SMG&A expenses for fiscal 2005 decreased by $2 million,
    or 1%, from the levels recorded in 2004. The decrease in
    SMG&A expenses was caused by a reduction in employee bonus
    expenses of $4 million and reductions in other SMG&A
    expenses of $10 million as a result of tight control over
    all discretionary spending throughout the year. These expense
    reductions were partially offset by a $12 million increase
    in salary and employee benefit expenses.

Purchased
    In-process Research and Development  

We incurred charges totaling $21.7 million for the
    write-off of in-process technology that had not yet reached
    technological feasibility associated with our acquisitions in
    the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006. There were no
    charges for the write-off of in-process research and development
    in fiscal 2005 or 2004. See    Acquisitions 
    below for additional information regarding these acquisitions.

Special
    Charges   Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2006  

Closure
    of Wafer Fabrication Facility  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we recorded a special
    charge of $20.3 million as a result of a decision to close
    our California wafer fabrication operations and transfer
    virtually all of the production of products manufactured there
    to our facility located in Wilmington, Massachusetts. The charge
    was for severance and fringe benefit costs that were recorded
    pursuant to SFAS 88,  Employers  Accounting for
    Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans
    and for Termination Benefits , or SFAS 88, under our
    ongoing benefit plan for 339 manufacturing employees and 28
    general and administrative employees. The severance benefit was
    calculated based on length of past service, and employees must
    continue to be employed until they are involuntarily terminated
    in order to receive the severance benefit. As of
    October 28, 2006, 72 of these employees remained employed
    at our company. The employment of 42 of these employees was
    terminated on November 9, 2006. The remaining 30 employees
    will continue working over the next three months on the cleanup
    and closure of this wafer fabrication facility.

28

Table of Contents   

In addition to the charge recorded in the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2005, we recorded additional expense during fiscal 2006,
    which consisted of $18.3 million of non-cash cost of sales
    expenses for additional depreciation due to shortened useful
    lives of certain manufacturing equipment and $2.0 million
    for stay-on bonuses. We reversed approximately $2.0 million
    of our severance accrual during fiscal 2006. The accrual
    reversal was required because some employees voluntarily left
    the company, other employees found alternative employment within
    the company, and there was an over accrual related to fringe
    benefits because severance payments, normally paid as income
    continuance, were paid as lump sum payments, which reduced the
    benefit costs associated with these payments.

We ceased production at the wafer fabrication facility on
    November 9, 2006. We expect to incur additional expenses
    related to this action in the first half of fiscal 2007 of
    approximately $12 million for lease termination,
     clean-up  and
    closure costs. In accordance with SFAS 146,  Accounting
    for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,  the
    lease charge will be taken when we cease using the building and
    the cleanup and closure costs will be expensed as incurred. The
    closure of this facility is estimated to result in annual cost
    savings of approximately $50 million per year beginning in
    fiscal 2007. These annual savings are expected to be realized as
    follows: approximately $49 million in cost of sales, of
    which approximately $7 million relates to non-cash
    depreciation savings, and approximately $1 million in
    SMG&A expenses.

Reorganization
    of Product Development and Support Programs  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we recorded a special
    charge of $11.2 million as a result of our decision to
    reorganize our product development and support programs with the
    goal of providing greater focus on our analog and DSP product
    programs. The charge was for severance and fringe benefit costs
    that were recorded pursuant to SFAS 88 under our ongoing
    benefit plan or statutory requirements at foreign locations for
    60 manufacturing employees and 154 engineering and selling,
    marketing, general and administrative employees. These employees
    must continue to be employed until they are involuntarily
    terminated in order to receive the severance benefit. As of
    October 28, 2006, 23 of these employees were still employed
    by the company.

During fiscal 2006, we recorded an additional special charge of
    $3.8 million related to this reorganization action.
    Approximately $1.5 million of this charge was for lease
    obligation costs for a facility we ceased using during the first
    quarter of fiscal 2006 and the write-off of property, plant and
    equipment and other items. The remaining $2.3 million
    relates to the severance and fringe benefit costs that were
    recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 pursuant to
    SFAS 88 under our ongoing benefit plan or statutory
    requirements at foreign locations for 46 engineering and
    selling, marketing, general and administrative employees. These
    employees must continue to be employed until they are
    involuntarily terminated in order to receive the severance
    benefit. As of October 28, 2006, 35 of these employees were
    still employed by the company.

We do not expect to incur any further material charges related
    to this reorganization action. These organizational changes are
    expected to result in savings of approximately $25 million
    per year once fully completed by the end of the first quarter of
    fiscal 2007. These savings are expected to be realized as
    follows: approximately $14 million in R&D expenses,
    approximately $8 million in SMG&A expenses and
    approximately $3 million in cost of sales. A portion of
    these savings associated with the charge we recorded in the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 have already been realized during
    the second half of fiscal 2006.

Operating
    Income  

The $35.8 million increase in operating income in fiscal
    2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 was primarily the result of an
    8% increase in net sales and a 60 basis point increase in gross
    margin percentage. These increases were partially offset by
    $73.9 million of stock-based operating expenses associated
    with the adoption of SFAS 123R and the $21.7 million
    write-off of purchased in-process research and development from
    our recent acquisitions. The special charges in fiscal 2006 were
    lower by $29.7 million from the special charges recorded in
    fiscal 2005.

29

Table of Contents   

The decrease in operating income in fiscal 2005 as compared to
    fiscal 2004 was primarily a result of a 9% decrease in net
    sales, a 110 basis point decrease in gross margin combined
    with a $31.5 million special charge in fiscal year 2005
    partially offset by a decrease in operating expense.

Nonoperating
    (Income) Expense  

Nonoperating income increased by $38.9 million in fiscal
    2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. This increase was primarily the
    result of higher interest income, which was primarily
    attributable to higher interest rates in fiscal 2006 as compared
    to fiscal 2005. Non-operating income for fiscal 2006 also
    included a $13.0 million gain on the sale of our DSP-based
    DSL ASIC and network processor product line during the second
    quarter of fiscal 2006.

The
     year-to-year 
    increase in interest income in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal
    2004 was primarily attributable to higher interest rates as well
    as higher average invested cash balances.

Provision
    for Income Taxes  

Our effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in
    effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where
    our income is earned. The tax rate was lower in fiscal 2006
    compared to fiscal 2005 primarily due to the recording of tax
    benefits of $35.2 million associated with the completion of
    an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination during fiscal
    2006, including the reversal of penalty accruals and the filing
    of refund claims in other jurisdictions associated with the
    completion of the IRS audit. In addition, the effective tax rate
    was higher in fiscal 2005 as a result of our repatriation of
    foreign earnings and the write-off of deferred tax assets
    associated with balances accumulated in our deferred
    compensation plan as more fully described below.

On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of
    2004, or the AJCA, was signed into law. The AJCA created a
    temporary incentive for US multinational corporations to
    repatriate accumulated foreign income by providing an 85%
    dividends received deduction for certain dividends from
    controlled foreign corporations. During fiscal 2005, we
    repatriated $1,055 million of accumulated foreign earnings.
    Under current tax law, the earnings repatriated prior to
    October 29, 2005 were taxed at a reduced effective tax
    rate. As a result of this action, we recorded additional income
    tax expense of $49 million in fiscal 2005.

We had originally established a deferred tax asset on our
    consolidated balance sheet with the expectation that the
    officers subject to the 162(m) limitation of the Internal
    Revenue Code would not withdraw their balances from the Analog
    Devices, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, or the deferred
    compensation plan, while they were still subject to the 162(m)
    limitation, and we would receive a tax deduction at the time of
    withdrawal, generally upon their retirement. Due to changes in
    tax law during 2005 that were enacted as part of the AJCA, the
    laws associated with distributions from deferred compensation
    plans have changed. As a result, in fiscal 2005 three executive
    officers who were subject to the 162(m) limitation withdrew, or
    indicated their intention to withdraw a portion of their
    balances from the deferred compensation plan. We incurred
    additional income tax expense in fiscal 2005 of
    $7.2 million as a result of the write-off of deferred tax
    assets associated with balances accumulated in the deferred
    compensation plan.

30

Table of Contents   

Net
    Income  

Net income increased by $134.7 million in fiscal 2006 as
    compared to fiscal 2005, primarily as the result of the 8%
    increase in net sales, the improvement in gross margin
    percentage, the increase in nonoperating income and lower tax
    expense. This increase in net income was partially offset by a
     year-to-year 
    increase in operating expenses of $87.5 million, primarily
    as a result of $66.2 million of stock-based operating
    expenses related to the adoption of SFAS 123R and
    $23.1 million of operating expenses related to the our
    acquisitions during fiscal 2006. These operating expense
    increases were partially offset by a $29.7 million decrease
    in special charges in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005.

Net income decreased by $156 million in fiscal 2005 as
    compared to fiscal 2004. This decrease was primarily the result
    of the
     year-to-year 
    decrease in net sales, a $49 million tax charge related to
    the repatriation of foreign earnings and $31 million of
    special charges recorded in fiscal 2005. The decrease in net
    income was partially offset by a $36 million increase in
    interest income.

The impact of inflation and foreign currency exchange rate
    movement on our business during the past three fiscal years has
    not been significant.

Acquisitions  

In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we completed a transaction
    with TTPCom Limited (TTPCom), whereby TTPCom transferred to us
    intellectual property, engineering resources, and related assets
    associated with the support and customization of TTPCom s
    GSM/GPRS/EDGE modem software for use on our existing and future
    generations of SoftFone(R) baseband processors. We also acquired
    development rights for AJAR, TTPCom s advanced applications
    platform. As a result of this transaction, we are the single
    point of contact for both hardware and software support for our
    new and existing wireless handset customers, thus improving our
    abilities to service the needs of individual customers. We paid
    $11.9 million in initial cash payments and may become
    obligated to make additional cash payments of up to an aggregate
    of $12 million based on the achievement of technological
    milestones during the period from May 2006 through November
    2006. The purchase price was allocated to the tangible and
    intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values
    at the date of acquisition. The estimated fair values of the
    assets exceeded the initial payments by $7.8 million,
    resulting in negative goodwill. Pursuant to Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No 141,  Business
    Combinations,  we recorded a liability for the contingent
    consideration that will be accounted for as additional purchase
    price, up to the amount of the negative goodwill. As contingent
    payments become due, the payments will be applied against the
    contingent liability. Contingent payments in excess of
    $7.8 million, if any, will be recorded as additional
    purchase price. As of October 28, 2006, we had paid
    $6 million of contingent payments, and the remaining
    contingent liability was $1.8 million. The purchase price
    included $5.5 million of in-process technology that had not
    yet reached technological feasibility, had no alternative future
    use and was charged to operations during the third quarter of
    fiscal 2006. The in-process technology related to software code
    developed for use in our semiconductor chipsets manufactured for
    devices that use both the 2G and 2.5G cellular wireless
    technology standards. The fair value of the in-process
    technology was determined by a third party using the income
    forecast method, which is a discounted net cash flow approach.
    At the time of the acquisition, the in-process technology was
    approximately 56% complete. As of October 28, 2006, the
    in-process research and development projects are on schedule. We
    expect to complete these projects in the first quarter of fiscal
    2007 and incur an additional $1.3 million of expense
    related to these projects. The acquisition also included
    $13.2 million of intangible assets that will be amortized
    over their estimated useful lives of five years using an
    accelerated amortization method that reflects the estimated
    pattern of economic use.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we acquired substantially
    all the outstanding stock of privately-held Integrant
    Technologies, Inc. (Integrant) of Seoul, Korea. The acquisition
    enabled us to enter the mobile TV market as well as strengthened
    our presence in the Asian region. We paid $127.2 million in
    initial cash payments at closing

31

Table of Contents   

and may be obligated to make additional cash payments of up to
    an aggregate of $33 million upon the satisfaction of
    certain conditions. The initial cash payments include
    $4.2 million held in escrow for the purchase of the
    remaining non-founder outstanding shares. The preliminary
    purchase price was allocated to the tangible and intangible
    assets acquired based on their estimated fair values at the date
    of acquisition. We expect to complete the purchase accounting in
    the first quarter of fiscal 2007 upon obtaining certain
    additional information. The $33 million of potential cash
    payments is comprised of $25 million for the achievement of
    revenue-based milestones that may be payable during the period
    from July 2006 through December 2007 and $8 million related
    to the purchase of shares from the founder of Integrant during
    the period from July 2007 through July 2009. The additional cash
    payments, if any, will be recorded as additional purchase price.
    The purchase price included $11.1 million of in-process
    technology that had not yet reached technological feasibility,
    had no alternative future use and was charged to operations
    during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The in-process
    technology related to technologies currently in development for
    Dual DAB, T-DMB, DVB-H, RFID and WiBro applications.
    The fair value of the in-process technology was determined by a
    third-party using the income forecast method, which is a
    discounted net cash flow approach. At the time of the
    acquisition, the in-process technology was approximately 74%
    complete. As of October 28, 2006, the in-process research
    and development projects are on schedule. We expect to complete
    the projects in the second quarter of fiscal 2007 and incur an
    additional $3.3 million of expense related to these
    projects. The acquisition also included $21.6 million of
    intangible assets that will be amortized over their estimated
    useful lives of two to five years using an accelerated
    amortization method that reflects the estimated pattern of
    economic use.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we acquired all the
    outstanding stock of privately-held AudioAsics
     A/S (AudioAsics) 
    of Roskilde, Denmark. The acquisition of AudioAsics allows us to
    continue developing our low-power audio solutions, while
    expanding our presence in the Nordic and Eastern European
    regions. We paid $19.3 million in initial cash payments at
    closing and may be obligated to make additional cash payments of
    up to an aggregate of $8 million upon the satisfaction of
    certain conditions. The purchase price was allocated to the
    tangible and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated
    fair values at the date of acquisition. The $8 million of
    potential cash payments is comprised of $4.8 million for
    the achievement of revenue-based milestones that may be payable
    during the period from October 2006 through January 2009 and
    $3.2 million based on the achievement of technological
    milestones during the period from October 2006 through January
    2009. In order to be entitled to receive $2.4 million of
    the revenue-based contingent consideration, certain key
    employees must continue to be employed by us. As such, that
    portion of the revenue-based contingent consideration will be
    recorded as compensation expense when, and if, it is earned. The
    technological milestones require post-acquisition services to be
    rendered in order to be achieved and, as such, will be recorded
    as compensation expense when earned. The purchase price included
    $5.1 million of in-process technology that had not yet
    reached technological feasibility, had no alternative future use
    and was charged to operations during the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2006. The in-process technology related to technologies
    currently in development for analog and digital microphone
     pre-amplifiers. 
    The fair value of the in-process technology was determined by a
    third party using the income forecast method, which is a
    discounted net cash flow approach. At the time of the
    acquisition, the in-process technology was approximately 69%
    complete. As of October 28, 2006, the in-process research
    and development projects are on schedule. We expect to complete
    the projects by April 2007 and incur an additional
    $1.0 million of expense related to these projects. The
    acquisition also included $8.3 million of intangible assets
    that will be amortized over their estimated useful lives of five
    years using an accelerated amortization method that reflects the
    estimated pattern of economic use.

Pro forma results of operations for TTPCom, Integrant and
    AudioAsics have not been provided herein as they were not
    material to us on either an individual or an aggregate basis.
    The results of operations of each acquisition are included in
    our consolidated statement of income from the date of such
    acquisition.

Related
    Party Transaction  

One of our directors, who has served on our Board of Directors
    since 1988, became a director of Taiwan Semiconductor
    Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, in fiscal 2002 and continues to
    serve as a director of TSMC. Management believes the terms and
    prices for the purchases of products from TSMC are not affected
    by the presence of one of our directors on the Board of
    Directors of TSMC. We purchased approximately $281 million,
    $224 million and $337 million of products from TSMC in
    fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

32

Table of Contents   

Approximately $17 million and $27 million were payable
    to TSMC as of October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005,
    respectively. We anticipate that we will make significant
    purchases from TSMC in fiscal year 2007.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

At October 28, 2006, cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments totaled $2,128 million, a decrease of
    $577.6 million from fiscal 2005. Our statement of cash
    flows reflects the impact of $181.2 million for allocating
    the excess tax benefit from the exercise of stock options over a
    period of several years between the financing and operating
    section of the statement of cash flows, as required by
    SFAS 123R. The primary sources of funds for fiscal 2006
    were net cash generated from operating activities of
    $621.1 million (which is net of the $181.2 million of
    non-cash excess tax benefit discussed above),
    $305.6 million of cash inflows from the net change in our
    short-term
     available-for-sale 
    investments, proceeds from the sale of a product line of
    $23.1 million and proceeds of $94.4 million from our
    various employee stock plans. The principal uses of funds during
    fiscal 2006 were the repurchase of approximately
    30.7 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate of
    $1,025 million, cash dividend payments of
    $201.5 million, payments of $157.0 million for
    acquisitions and capital expenditures of $129.3 million.

During fiscal 2005, net cash provided by operations decreased by
    $105 million from the amount recorded in fiscal 2004
    primarily due to a decline in net income of $156 million.
    Cash and cash equivalents increased by $109 million during
    fiscal 2005. This increase was the result of $673 million
    of cash flow from operations, $89 million in proceeds from
    our various employee stock programs and $70 million of cash
    inflows from the net change in our short-term
     available-for-sale 
    investments. These cash inflows were partially offset by the
    repurchase of $525 million of our common stock, the payment
    of $119 million of cash dividends and additions to
    property, plant and equipment of $85 million. Cash, cash
    equivalents and short-term investments increased by
    $21 million during fiscal 2005 to $2,706 million at
    October 29, 2005.

Accounts receivable at the end of fiscal 2006 increased by
    $8.9 million, or 3%, from the amount at the end of fiscal
    2005. This increase was the result of higher sales in the last
    month of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the
    last month of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.

Inventories at the end of fiscal 2006 increased by
    $53.0 million, or 16%, from the amount at the end of fiscal
    2005 and days cost of sales in inventory at the end of fiscal
    2006 increased by 13 days from the amount at the end of
    fiscal 2005. Approximately $19.0 million of this increase
    relates to the inventory that was built in preparation for the
    planned closure of our wafer fabrication facility in California
    and approximately $3.7 million relates to the
    capitalization of manufacturing related stock-based compensation
    expense as a result of our adoption of SFAS 123R in the
    first quarter of fiscal 2006. The remainder of the increase
    primarily relates to increased inventory to support anticipated
    higher sales demand.

Current liabilities decreased to $490.9 million at
    October 28, 2006, a decrease of $328.0 million, or
    40%, from $818.9 million at the end of fiscal 2005. The
    decrease in current liabilities was largely the result of a
    $233.3 million net decrease in the current portion of the
    deferred compensation plan liability, primarily as a result of
    withdrawals by plan participants in response to certain
    provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act, as more fully
    described below. Additionally, income taxes payable at
    October 28, 2006 decreased by a net of $111.3 million
    compared to the end of fiscal 2005, which was primarily as a
    result of recording tax deductions in 2006 for stock options
    exercised

33

Table of Contents   

over a period of several years becoming available upon the
    completion of the IRS examination. These decreases were
    partially offset by a $27.7 million increase in deferred
    income on shipments to distributors due to the increase in
    inventory held by our distributors as a result of increases in
    demand for our products during fiscal 2006.

During fiscal 2006, we distributed $254.1 million from our
    amended and restated deferred compensation plan, or the Deferred
    Compensation Plan, as a result of participant terminations or at
    the direction of the participants. This amount represented
    compensation
     and/or  stock
    option gains previously deferred by those participants pursuant
    to the terms of our Deferred Compensation Plan and earnings on
    those deferred amounts. As a result of certain provisions of the
    American Jobs Creation Act, participants had the opportunity
    until December 31, 2005 to elect to withdraw amounts
    previously deferred.

Net additions to property, plant and equipment were
    $129.3 million in fiscal 2006, $85.5 million in fiscal
    2005 and $146.2 million in fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2007 capital
    expenditures are expected to total approximately
    $175 million.

During fiscal 2006, our Board of Directors declared cash
    dividends totaling $0.56 per outstanding share of common
    stock resulting in dividend payments of $201.5 million in
    fiscal 2006. The payment of future dividends, if any, will be
    based on several factors including our financial performance,
    outlook and liquidity. After the end of the fiscal year, on
    November 13, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a cash
    dividend of $0.16 per outstanding share of our common
    stock. The dividend is payable on December 13, 2006 to
    shareholders of record on November 24, 2006 and is expected
    to total approximately $54 million.

On May 11, 2005, our Board of Directors authorized an
    increase in the aggregate dollar amount of common stock that may
    be repurchased under our share repurchase program previously
    adopted by our Board of Directors on August 11, 2004 from
    $500 million to $1 billion. On March 14, 2006,
    our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase by us of an
    additional $1 billion of our common stock, increasing the
    total amount of our common stock we can repurchase from
    $1 billion to $2 billion of our common stock. Under
    the repurchase program, we may repurchase outstanding shares of
    our common stock from time to time in the open market and
    through privately negotiated transactions. Unless terminated
    earlier by resolution of our Board of Directors, the repurchase
    program will expire when we have repurchased all shares
    authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program. During
    fiscal 2006, we repurchased approximately $1,025 million of
    our common stock under this plan. During fiscal 2005, we
    repurchased approximately $525.5 million of our common
    stock under this program. As of October 28, 2006, we had
    $312.4 million of authorization remaining under our
    repurchase program.

The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of
    October 28, 2006:

(a)  

Certain of our operating lease obligations include escalation
    clauses. These escalating payment requirements are reflected in
    the table. 

(b)  

These payments relate to obligations under our deferred
    compensation plan. The deferred compensation plan allows certain
    members of management and other highly-compensated employees and
    non-employee directors to defer receipt of all or any portion of
    their compensation. Prior to January 1, 2005, participants
    could also defer gains on stock options and restricted stock
    granted before July 23, 1997. The amount in the  More
    than 5 Years  column of the table represents the
    remaining total balance under the deferred compensation plan to
    be paid to participants who have not terminated employment.
    Since we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of withdrawals
    for participants who have not yet terminated employment we have
    included the future obligation to these participants in the
     More than 5 Years  column of the table. All
    other columns represent installment payments to be made to those
    employees who have retired or are on long-term disability. 

34

Table of Contents   

(c)  

Our funding policy for our foreign defined benefit plans is
    consistent with the local requirements of each country. The
    payment obligations in the table are estimates of our expected
    contributions to these plans for fiscal year 2007. The actual
    future payments may differ from the amounts presented in the
    table and reasonable estimates of payments beyond one year are
    not practical because of potential future changes in variables
    such as plan asset performance, interest rates and the rate of
    increase in compensation levels. 

Purchase orders for the purchase of raw materials and other
    goods and services are not included in the table above. We are
    not able to determine the total amount of these purchase orders
    that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may
    represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding
    agreements. In addition, our purchase orders generally allow for
    cancellation without significant penalties. We do not have
    significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or
    other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that
    exceed our expected short-term requirements.

The expected timing of payments and the amounts of the
    obligations discussed above are estimated based on current
    information.

At October 28, 2006, our principal source of liquidity was
    $2,128 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity
    and cash expected to be generated from future operations,
    together with anticipated available long-term financing, will be
    sufficient to fund operations, capital expenditures and research
    and development efforts for at least the next twelve months and
    thereafter for the foreseeable future.

Off-balance
    Sheet Financing  

As of October 28, 2006, we had no off-balance sheet
    financing arrangements.

Outlook  

The following statements are based on current expectations.
    These statements are forward looking, and actual results may
    differ materially. These statements do not give effect to the
    potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, or
    business combinations that may be announced or closed after the
    date of filing this report. These statements supersede all prior
    statements regarding business outlook made by the Company.
    Product sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 are planned to
    be approximately $635 to $670 million. This includes an
    additional week of operations as the first quarter of fiscal
    2007 will have a total of 14 weeks. In addition, revenue in
    the first quarter of fiscal 2007 will include a $35 million
    one-time, non-recurring payment received by us on
    November 9, 2006 in exchange for licensing certain
    intellectual property rights to a third party. Total revenue in
    the first quarter of fiscal 2007 is expected to range from $670
    to $705 million. Gross margin percentage is planned to be
    approximately 61.2% to 61.6% of revenue in the first quarter of
    fiscal 2007 which includes the impact of the $35 million
    one-time payment that has no cost of sales associated with it.
    Diluted EPS is planned to be approximately $0.36 to $0.42 for
    the first quarter of fiscal 2007.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements  

Accounting
    for Prior Year Misstatements  

In September 2006, the United States Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB)
    No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
    Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
    Financial Statements  (SAB 108). This SAB provides
    guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year
    misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the
    purpose of a materiality assessment. SAB 108 establishes an
    approach that requires quantification of financial statement
    errors based on the effects of each of the company s
    balance sheet and statement of operations financial statements
    and the related financial statement disclosures. The SAB permits
    existing public companies to record the cumulative effect of
    initially applying this approach in the first year ending after
    November 15, 2006 by recording the necessary correcting
    adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as
    of the beginning of that year with the offsetting adjustment
    recorded to the opening balance of retained earnings.
    Additionally, the use of the cumulative effect transition method
    requires detailed disclosure of the nature and amount of each
    individual error being corrected

35

Table of Contents   

through the cumulative adjustment and how and when it arose. We
    are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that SAB 108
    may have on our financial condition, results of operations or
    liquidity.

Accounting
    for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans  

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS)
    No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
    Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   An Amendment
    of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R
     (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires companies to
    recognize the funded status of pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans on sponsoring employers  balance sheets and
    to recognize changes in the funded status in the year the
    changes occur. It also requires the measurement date of plan
    assets and obligations to occur at the end of the
    employers  fiscal year. SFAS 158 is effective for us
    at the end of fiscal 2007, except for the change in measurement
    date, which is effective for us in fiscal 2008. The effect on
    our financial statements is dependent upon the discount rate at
    our fiscal 2007 measurement date (September 30,
    2007) and actual returns on our pension plan assets during
    the year. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that
    SFAS 158 may have on our financial condition, results of
    operations or liquidity.

Accounting
    for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48).
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in
    accordance with SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes.   FIN 48 prescribes a recognition
    threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
    recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
    to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance
    on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
    accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.
    FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006. We are currently evaluating the impact,
    if any, that FIN 48 may have on our financial condition,
    results of operations or liquidity.

Accounting
    Changes and Error Corrections  

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
     (SFAS 154) which supersedes APB Opinion
    No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and SFAS No. 3,
     Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
    Statements.  SFAS 154 provides guidance on the
    accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
    corrections. It establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective
    application as the required method for reporting a change in
    accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition
    requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle.
    The correction of an error in previously issued financial
    statements is not an accounting change. However, the reporting
    of an error correction involves adjustments to previously issued
    financial statements similar to those generally applicable to
    reporting an accounting change retroactively. Therefore, the
    reporting of a correction of an error by restating previously
    issued financial statements is also addressed by this statement.
    SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154 during
    fiscal 2006 did not have a material impact on our financial
    condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Asset
    Retirements  

In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47,  Accounting for
    Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.  FIN 47
    clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement
    obligation  as used in FASB Statement No. 143,
     Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,  refers to a
    legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in
    which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional
    on a future event that may or may not be within the control of
    the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement
    activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about
    the timing and (or) method of settlement. Uncertainty about the
    timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset
    retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of
    the liability when sufficient information exists. FIN 47
    also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information
    to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement
    obligation. FIN 47 is effective no

36

Table of Contents   

later than the end of fiscal years ending after
    December 15, 2005. The adoption of FIN 47 in the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 did not impact our financial
    condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Inventory
    Costs  

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
     Inventory Costs, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin
    (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4  (SFAS 151).
    SFAS 151 amends the guidance in ARB No 43, Chapter 4,
     Inventory Pricing,  to clarify that abnormal amounts
    of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted
    material (spoilage) should be recognized as current-period
    charges. In addition, SFAS 151 requires that the allocation
    of fixed production overhead to the costs of conversion be based
    on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The
    provisions of SFAS 151 are effective for fiscal years
    beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of
    SFAS 151 in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 did not impact
    our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Management s discussion and analysis of the financial
    condition and results of operations is based upon the
    consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States. The preparation of these financial statements
    requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
    reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses,
    and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We
    base our estimates and judgments on historical experience,
    knowledge of current conditions and beliefs of what could occur
    in the future given available information. We consider the
    following accounting policies to be both those most important to
    the portrayal of our financial condition and those that require
    the most subjective judgment. If actual results differ
    significantly from management s estimates and projections,
    there could be a material effect on our financial statements. We
    also have other policies that we consider key accounting
    policies, such as our policy for revenue recognition, including
    the deferral of revenue on sales to distributors until the
    products are sold to the end user; however, the application of
    these policies does not require us to make significant estimates
    or judgments that are difficult or subjective.

Inventory
    Valuation  

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost
     (first-in, 
    first-out method) or market. Because of the cyclical nature of
    the semiconductor industry, changes in inventory levels,
    obsolescence of technology, and product life cycles, we write
    down inventories to net realizable value. We employ a variety of
    methodologies to determine the amount of inventory reserves
    necessary. While a portion of the reserve is determined via
    reference to the age of inventory and lower of cost or market
    calculations, an element of the reserve is subject to
    significant judgments made by us about future demand for our
    inventory. If actual demand for our products is less than our
    estimates, additional reserves for existing inventories may need
    to be recorded in future periods.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts  

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, when appropriate,
    for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our
    customers to make required payments. If the financial condition
    of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may
    exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be
    required.

Long-Lived
    Assets  

We review property, plant, and equipment and identified
    intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying value of assets may not
    be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by
    comparison of their carrying value to future undiscounted cash
    flows the assets are expected to generate over their remaining
    economic lives. If such assets are considered to be impaired,
    the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the amount by
    which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their fair market
    value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a
    value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique.
    Although we have recognized no material impairment adjustments
    related to our property, plant, and equipment and identified
    intangible assets during the past three fiscal years, except
    those made in conjunction with restructuring actions,
    deterioration in our business in the future could lead to such
    impairment adjustments in future

37

Table of Contents   

periods. Evaluation of impairment of long-lived assets requires
    estimates of future operating results that are used in the
    preparation of the expected future undiscounted cash flows.
    Actual future operating results and the remaining economic lives
    of our long-lived assets could differ from the estimates used in
    assessing the recoverability of these assets. These differences
    could result in impairment charges, which could have a material
    adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, in
    certain instances, assets may not be impaired but their
    estimated useful lives may have decreased. In these situations,
    we amortize the remaining net book values over the revised
    useful lives.

Goodwill  

In accordance with SFAS 142,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets,  goodwill is subject to annual impairment
    tests, or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist
    and suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may not be
    recoverable from estimated discounted future cash flows. Because
    we have one reporting segment under SFAS 142, we utilize
    the entity-wide approach to assess goodwill for impairment and
    compare our market value to our net book value to determine if
    an impairment exists. These impairment tests may result in
    impairment losses that could have a material adverse impact on
    our results of operations.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes  

We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS 109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes,  which requires that deferred
    tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates
    for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax
    bases of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS 109 also
    requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation
    allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all
    of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We evaluate the
    realizability of our deferred tax assets quarterly. At
    October 28, 2006, we had gross deferred tax assets of
    $188.4 million primarily resulting from temporary
    differences between the book and tax bases of assets and
    liabilities. We have conducted an assessment of the likelihood
    of realization of those deferred tax assets and concluded that a
    $42.6 million valuation allowance is needed to reserve the
    amount of the deferred tax assets that may not be realized due
    to the expiration of state credit carryovers. In reaching our
    conclusion, we evaluated certain relevant criteria including the
    existence of deferred tax liabilities that can be used to absorb
    deferred tax assets, the taxable income in prior carryback years
    that can be used to absorb net operating losses and taxable
    income in future years. Our judgments regarding future
    profitability may change due to future market conditions,
    changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other
    factors. These changes, if any, may require material adjustments
    to these deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net
    income or an increase in net loss in the period when such
    determinations are made.

In the ordinary course of global business, there are many
    transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is
    uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of
    cost reimbursement and royalty arrangements among related
    entities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no
    assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these
    matters will not be different than that which is reflected in
    our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such
    differences could have a material impact on our income tax
    provision and operating results in the period in which such
    determination is made.

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

The adoption of SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal
    2006 requires that stock-based compensation expense associated
    with stock options and related awards be recognized in the
    statement of income, rather than being disclosed in a pro forma
    footnote to the consolidated financial statements. Determining
    the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires
    us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date
    fair value of stock options. We calculate the grant-date fair
    values using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The use of
    valuation models requires us to make estimates of the following
    assumptions:

Expected volatility    We are responsible for
    estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors,
    including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. For
    options granted prior to fiscal 2005, we used historical
    volatility to estimate the grant-date fair value of stock
    options. We changed our method of estimating expected volatility
    for all stock options granted after fiscal 2004 from exclusively
    relying on historical volatility to exclusively relying on
    implied volatility. This change was the result of a thorough
    review we undertook which

38

Table of Contents   

included consultations with several third-party advisors. We
    currently believe that the exclusive use of implied volatility
    results in a more accurate estimate of the grant-date fair value
    of employee stock options because it more appropriately reflects
    the market s expectations of future volatility. Historical
    volatility during the period commensurate with the expected term
    of our stock options over the past several years included a
    period of time that our stock price experienced unprecedented
    increases and subsequent declines. We believe that this past
    stock price volatility is unlikely to be indicative of future
    stock price behavior. Options in our stock are actively traded
    on several exchanges. Implied volatility is calculated for the
    period that is commensurate with the option s expected term
    assumption. Because this term often exceeds the period for which
    there are exchange-traded options in our stock, statistical
    techniques are used to derive the implied volatility for traded
    options with terms commensurate with the option s expected
    term of five years. This calculation of implied volatility is
    derived from the closing prices of the Company s stock and
    exchange traded options from the most recent five trading days
    prior to the grant date of the employee stock option. In
    general, the higher the expected volatility used in the
    Black-Scholes valuation model, the higher the grant-date fair
    value of the option.

Expected term    We use historical employee
    exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected
    term assumption for the Black-Scholes grant date valuation. We
    believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate
    of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of
    our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior. In general, the
    longer the expected term used in the Black-Scholes valuation
    model, the higher the grant-date fair value of the option.

Risk-free interest rate    The yield on
    zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is
    commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the
    risk-free interest rate.

Expected dividend yield    Expected dividend
    yield is calculated by annualizing the cash dividend declared by
    our Board of Directors for the current quarter and dividing that
    result by the closing stock price on the date of grant of the
    option. Until such time as our Board of Directors declares a
    cash dividend for an amount that is different from the current
    quarter s cash dividend, the current dividend will be used
    in deriving this assumption. Cash dividends are not paid on
    options, restricted stock or restricted stock units.

The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during
    a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that
    are ultimately expected to vest. SFAS 123R requires
    forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if
    necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ
    from those estimates. The term  forfeitures  is
    distinct from  cancellations  or
     expirations  and represents only the unvested portion
    of the surrendered option. We currently expect, based on an
    analysis of our historical forfeitures, that approximately 84%
    of our options will vest, and therefore have applied an annual
    forfeiture rate of 3.4% to all unvested options as of
    October 28, 2006. The 3.4% represents the portion that is
    expected to be forfeited each year over the vesting period,
    therefore, the cumulative amount, on a compounded basis, that is
    expected to be forfeited is approximately 16% of the aggregate
    options granted. This analysis will be re-evaluated quarterly
    and the forfeiture rate will be adjusted as necessary.
    Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting
    period will only be for those shares that vest.

Contingencies  

From time to time, we receive notices that our products or
    manufacturing processes may be infringing the patent or
    intellectual property rights of others. We periodically assess
    each matter to determine if a contingent liability should be
    recorded in accordance with SFAS 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies.  In making this determination, we may,
    depending on the nature of the matter, consult with internal and
    external legal counsel and technical experts. Based on the
    information we obtain, combined with our judgment regarding all
    the facts and circumstances of each matter, we determine whether
    it is probable that a contingent loss may be incurred and
    whether the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated.
    Should a loss be probable and reasonably estimable, we record a
    contingent loss in accordance with SFAS 5. In determining
    the amount of a contingent loss, we consider advice received
    from experts in the specific matter, current status of legal
    proceedings, settlement negotiations that may be ongoing, prior
    case history and other factors. Should the judgments and
    estimates made by us be incorrect, we may need to record
    additional contingent losses that could materially adversely
    impact our results of operations. See Note 13 to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information regarding our commitments and contingencies.

39

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A.    

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Interest
    Rate Exposure  

Our annual interest income would change by approximately
    $16 million in fiscal 2006 and $16 million in fiscal
    2005 for each 100 basis point increase or decrease in
    interest rates. The fair values of our investment portfolio at
    October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005 would change by
    approximately $6 million and $14 million,
    respectively, for each 100 basis point increase or decrease
    in rates.

Foreign
    Currency Exposure  

As more fully described in Note 2 (i) in the Notes to
    our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8
    of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    we regularly hedge our
     non-U.S. dollar-based 
    exposures by entering into forward exchange contracts. The terms
    of these contracts are for periods matching the duration of the
    underlying exposure and generally range from one month to twelve
    months. The short-term nature of these contracts has resulted in
    these instruments having insignificant fair values at
    October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005. Currently, our
    largest foreign currency exposure is the Euro, primarily because
    our European operations have a higher proportion of our local
    currency denominated expenses. Relative to foreign currency
    exposures existing at October 28, 2006, and
    October 29, 2005, a 10% unfavorable movement in foreign
    currency exchange rates would not expose us to significant
    losses in earnings or cash flows or significantly diminish the
    fair value of our foreign currency financial instruments,
    primarily due to the short lives of the affected financial
    instruments that effectively hedge substantially all of our
    year-end exposures against fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates. The calculation assumes that each exchange rate
    would change in the same direction relative to the
    U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes
    in exchange rates, such changes typically affect the volume of
    sales or the foreign currency sales price as competitors 
    products become more or less attractive. Our sensitivity
    analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates does not factor in a potential change in sales levels or
    local currency selling prices.

40

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.    

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

Years
    ended October 28, 2006, October 29, 2005 and
    October 30, 2004  

See accompanying Notes.

41

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

October 28,
    2006 and October 29, 2005  

See accompanying Notes.

42

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

Years
    ended October 28, 2006, October 29, 2005 and
    October 30, 2004  

See accompanying Notes.

43

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

Years
    ended October 28, 2006, October 29, 2005 and
    October 30, 2004  

See accompanying Notes.

44

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

Years
    ended October 28, 2006, October 29, 2005 and
    October 30, 2004  

See accompanying Notes.

45

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Years ended October 28, 2006, October 29, 2005 and
    October 30, 2004 

(all tabular amounts in thousands except per share
    amounts)  

1.    

Description
    of Business  

Analog Devices, Inc. ( Analog Devices  or the
     Company ) is a world leader in the design,
    manufacture and marketing of high-performance analog,
    mixed-signal and digital signal processing integrated circuits
    used in industrial, communication, computer and consumer
    applications. Since the Company s inception in 1965, it has
    focused on solving the engineering challenges associated with
    signal processing in electronic equipment. Real world signal
    processing describes the process of converting real-world
    phenomena such as temperature, motion, pressure, light and sound
    into electrical signals to be used in a wide array of electronic
    equipment ranging from industrial process control, factory
    automation systems, defense electronics, portable wireless
    communications devices, cellular basestations, central office
    networking equipment, computers, automobiles, medical imaging
    equipment, digital cameras and digital televisions. Signal
    processing technology is a critical element of high-speed
    communications, digital entertainment, and other consumer,
    computer and industrial applications. As new generations of
    digital applications evolve, they generate new needs for
    high-performance analog signal processing and digital signal
    processing, or DSP, technology. The Company produces a wide
    range of products that are designed to meet the signal
    processing technology needs of a broad base of customers.

2.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

a.  Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Upon
    consolidation, all intercompany accounts and transactions are
    eliminated. Amounts pertaining to the non-controlling ownership
    interest held by third parties in the operating results and
    financial position of the Company s majority owned
    subsidiaries are reported as  minority interest.  The
    Company s fiscal year is the
     52-week  or
     53-week 
    period ending on the Saturday closest to the last day in
    October. Fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 were
     52-week 
    periods. Fiscal year 2007 is a
     53-week 
    period.

Certain amounts reported in previous years have been
    reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2006 presentation. Such
    reclassifications were immaterial.

b.  Cash,
    Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments   

Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with
    insignificant interest rate risk and maturities of three months
    or less at the time of acquisition. Cash, cash equivalents and
    short-term investments consist primarily of corporate
    obligations such as commercial paper and corporate bonds, and
    Treasury and government agency notes and bonds. They also
    include bank time deposits, institutional money market funds and
    taxable municipal bonds.

The Company classifies its investments in readily marketable
    debt and equity securities as
      held-to-maturity,  
      available-for-sale  
    or  trading  at the time of purchase. There were no
    transfers between investment classifications in any of the
    fiscal years presented.
     Held-to-maturity 
    securities, which are carried at amortized cost, include only
    those securities the Company has the positive intent and ability
    to hold to maturity. Securities, such as bank time deposits,
    which by their nature are typically held to maturity, are
    classified as such. The Company s other readily marketable
    cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified as
     available-for-sale. 
     Available-for-sale 
    securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and
    losses, net of related tax, if any, reported in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss), which is a separate component
    of shareholders  equity. The Company s deferred
    compensation plan investments are classified as trading (see
    Note 7). Realized gains and losses, as well as interest,
    and dividends on all securities, are included in earnings.

The Company s short-term investments are adjusted to fair
    value at the end of each quarter. These adjustments to fair
    value are recorded as an increase or decrease in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss). No realized gains or losses
    were recorded during any of the fiscal years presented.

46

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Company periodically evaluates these investments for
    impairment in accordance with EITF Issue
     No. 03-01, 
     The Meaning of
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment and Its Application to Certain
    Investments.   When a decline in fair value is
    deemed to be
     other-than-temporary, 
    the Company records an impairment adjustment in the statement of
    income. There were no
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments of short-term investments in any of the fiscal years
    presented.

Unrealized gains and losses on
     available-for-sale 
    short-term investments were as follows:

Unrealized gains and losses in all fiscal years presented relate
    solely to US Government Treasury, agency and municipal bonds.

There were no unrealized gains and losses on
     held-to-maturity 
    investments in any of the fiscal years presented.

There were no cash equivalents or short-term investments
    classified as trading at October 28, 2006 and
    October 29, 2005. All of the Company s short-term
    investments were classified as
     available-for-sale. 
    Short-term investments with maturities in excess of one year are
    classified as short term as they are
     available-for-sale 
    securities and are available to be used in current operations.
    The components of the Company s cash, cash equivalents and
    short-term investments as of October 28, 2006 and
    October 29, 2005 were as follows:

47

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

c.  Supplemental
    Cash Flow Statement Information   

The Company s primary non-cash financing activities in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 resulted from the amortization of
    unearned stock compensation expense associated with the
    Company s 2001 acquisitions for which 1,462,066 shares
    of common stock were issued (valued at approximately
    $81.8 million) and unvested stock options with an intrinsic
    value of approximately $11.9 million were assumed. As a
    result, the Company recognized stock-based compensation expense
    over the vesting period of approximately $0.5 million in
    fiscal 2006, $3.6 million in fiscal 2005 and
    $6.1 million in fiscal 2004.

d.  Inventories   

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost
     (first-in, 
    first-out method) or market. Inventories at October 28,
    2006 and October 29, 2005 were as follows:

e.  Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less
    allowances for depreciation. The straight-line method of
    depreciation is used for all classes of assets for financial
    statement purposes; both straight-line and accelerated methods
    are used for income tax purposes. Capitalized leases and
    leasehold improvements are amortized based upon the lesser of
    the term of the lease or the useful life of the asset.
    Depreciation and amortization are based on the following useful
    lives:

Buildings & building
    equipment

Up to 25 years

Machinery & equipment

3-8 years

Office equipment

3-8 years

Total depreciation of property, plant and equipment was
    $167 million, $153 million and $150 million in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable.
    Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of
    their carrying amount to the future undiscounted cash flows the
    assets are expected to generate over their remaining economic
    lives. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
    impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the amount by
    which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their fair market
    value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a
    value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique.
    If such assets are not impaired, but their useful lives have
    decreased, the remaining net book value is amortized over the
    revised useful life.

48

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

f.  Goodwill
    and Intangible Assets   

Goodwill  

The Company annually evaluates goodwill for impairment as well
    as whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the
    carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Because the
    Company has one reporting segment under SFAS 142, the
    Company utilizes the entity-wide approach for assessing goodwill
    for impairment and compares its market value to its net book
    value to determine if an impairment exists. No impairment of
    goodwill resulted from the Company s most recent evaluation
    of goodwill for impairment, which occurred in the fourth quarter
    of fiscal 2006. No impairment of goodwill resulted in any of the
    fiscal years presented. The Company s next annual
    impairment assessment will be made in the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2007 unless indicators arise that would require the
    Company to reevaluate at an earlier date. The following table
    presents the changes in goodwill during fiscal 2006 and 2005:

See Note 6 for additional information on the Company s
    fiscal 2006 acquisitions.

Intangible
    Assets  

The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment
    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
    carrying value of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability
    of these assets is measured by comparison of their carrying
    value to future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected
    to generate over their remaining economic lives. If such assets
    are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized
    in earnings equals the amount by which the carrying value of the
    assets exceeds their fair market value determined by either a
    quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing
    a discounted cash flow technique.

During fiscal 2006, the Company purchased certain assets from
    TTPCom Limited (TTPCom), substantially all of the shares of
    Integrant Technologies, Inc. and all of the shares of AudioAsics
    A/S (AudioAsics). See Note 6 for additional information on
    the Company s fiscal 2006 acquisitions. As a result of
    these acquisitions, the Company recorded $43.1 million of
    intangible assets at the current exchange rate on the date of
    acquisition. The acquired intangible assets consisted of the
    following:

*  

Acquisition related customer relationship intangible assets
    related to Integrant will be amortized over two years and
    customer relationship intangible assets for TTPCom and
    AudioAsics will be amortized over five years. 

49

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Intangible assets, which will continue to be amortized,
    consisted of the following:

Intangible assets acquired prior to the third quarter of fiscal
    2006 continue to be amortized on a straight-line basis over
    their estimated useful lives, which range from five to ten
    years. The remaining amortization expense will be recognized
    over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.0 years. The
    $13.2 million of intangible assets acquired during the
    third quarter of fiscal 2006 and the $29.9 million acquired
    during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 will be amortized over
    their estimated useful lives of two to five years using an
    accelerated method of amortization that is expected to reflect
    the estimated pattern of economic use.

Amortization expense related to intangibles was
    $5.3 million, $2.4 million and $2.7 million in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Company expects annual amortization expense for these
    intangible assets to be:

g.  Grant
    Accounting   

Certain of the Company s foreign subsidiaries have received
    various grants from governmental agencies. These grants include
    capital, employment and research and development grants. Capital
    grants for the acquisition of property and equipment are netted
    against the related capital expenditures and amortized as a
    credit to depreciation expense over the useful life of the
    related asset. Employment grants, which relate to employee
    hiring and training, and research and development grants are
    recognized in earnings in the period in which the related
    expenditures are incurred by the Company.

h.  Translation
    of Foreign Currencies   

The functional currency for the Company s foreign sales and
    research and development operations is the applicable local
    currency. Gains and losses resulting from translation of these
    foreign currencies into U.S. dollars are recorded in
    accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. Transaction gains
    and losses and remeasurement of foreign currency denominated
    assets and liabilities are included in income currently,
    including those at the Company s principal foreign
    manufacturing operations where the functional currency is the
    U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses
    included in other expenses, net, were not material in fiscal
    2006, 2005 or 2004.

50

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

i.  Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Agreements   

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to
    offset certain operational and balance sheet exposures from the
    impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such
    exposures result from the portion of the Company s
    operations, assets and liabilities that are denominated in
    currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily Japanese
    Yen, Euro, and British Pounds Sterling. These foreign exchange
    contracts are entered into to support product sales, purchases
    and financing transactions made in the normal course of
    business, and accordingly, are not speculative in nature. In
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 133 (SFAS 133),  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities , hedges related to
    anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the
    inception of the respective hedges as cash flow hedges and are
    evaluated for effectiveness monthly.

The Company records all derivative financial instruments in the
    consolidated financial statements in other current assets or
    accrued liabilities, depending on their net position, at fair
    value regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the
    instrument. Changes in the fair value of the derivative
    financial instruments are either recognized periodically in
    earnings or in shareholders  equity as a component of
    accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) or loss depending
    on whether the derivative financial instrument qualifies for
    hedge accounting as defined by SFAS 133. Changes in fair
    values of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are
    reported in earnings as they occur.

Foreign Exchange Exposure Management    The
    Company has significant international sales and purchase
    transactions in foreign currencies and has a policy of hedging
    forecasted and actual foreign currency risk with forward foreign
    exchange contracts. The Company s forward foreign exchange
    contracts are denominated in Japanese Yen, British Pounds
    Sterling and the Euro and are for periods consistent with the
    terms of the underlying transactions, generally one year or
    less. Derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or
    minimize certain foreign currency exposures that can be
    confidently identified and quantified. In accordance with
    SFAS 133, hedges related to anticipated transactions are
    designated and documented at the inception of the respective
    hedges as cash flow hedges and are evaluated for effectiveness
    monthly. As the terms of the contract and the underlying
    transaction are matched at inception, forward contract
    effectiveness is calculated by comparing the change in fair
    value of the contract to the change in the forward value of the
    anticipated transaction, with the effective portion of the gain
    or loss on the derivative instrument reported as a component of
    OCI in shareholders  equity and reclassified into earnings
    in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects
    earnings. Any residual change in fair value of the instruments,
    or ineffectiveness, is recognized immediately in other income/
    expense. No ineffectiveness was recognized in fiscal 2006, 2005
    or 2004.

Additionally, the Company enters into forward foreign currency
    contracts that economically hedge the gains and losses generated
    by the remeasurement of certain recorded assets and liabilities
    in a non-functional currency. Changes in the fair value of these
    undesignated hedges are recognized in other income/expense
    immediately as an offset to the changes in the fair value of the
    asset or liability being hedged.

Derivative financial instruments involve, to a varying degree,
    elements of market and credit risk not recognized in the
    consolidated financial statements. The market risk associated
    with these instruments resulting from currency exchange rate or
    interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of
    the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being
    hedged. The counterparties to the agreements relating to the
    Company s foreign exchange and interest rate instruments
    consist of a number of major international financial
    institutions with high credit ratings. The Company does not
    believe that there is significant risk of nonperformance by
    these counterparties because the Company continually monitors
    the credit ratings of such counterparties, and limits the
    financial exposure with any one financial institution. While the
    contract or notional amounts of derivative financial instruments
    provide one measure of the volume of these transactions,
    they do not represent the amount of the Company s exposure
    to credit risk. The amounts potentially subject to credit risk
    (arising from the possible inability of counterparties to meet
    the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to the
    amounts, if any, by which the counterparties  obligations
    under the contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the
    counterparties.

51

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Accumulated
    Derivative Gains or Losses  

The following table summarizes activity in accumulated other
    comprehensive (loss) income related to derivatives classified as
    cash flow hedges held by the Company during the period of
    October 31, 2004 through October 28, 2006:

All of the accumulated gain will be reclassified into earnings
    over the next twelve months.

j.  Fair
    Values of Financial Instruments   

The following estimated fair value amounts have been determined
    by the Company using available market information and
    appropriate valuation methodologies. The estimates presented
    herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the
    Company could realize in a current market exchange.

The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company
    in estimating its fair value disclosures for financial
    instruments:

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments     These investments, except for
    those classified as
     held-to-maturity, 
    which are carried at amortized cost, are adjusted to fair value
    based on quoted market values.

Deferred compensation plan investments and other
    investments     The fair value of these
    investments is based on quoted market values, with the exception
    of private-company equity investments that are carried at cost,
    adjusted for impairment charges.

Interest rate swap and cap agreements    
    The fair value of interest rate swap and cap agreements is
    obtained from dealer quotes. These values represent the
    estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate
    the agreements taking into consideration current interest rates.

Forward foreign currency exchange
    contracts     The estimated fair value of
    forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which includes
    derivatives that are accounted for as cash flow hedges and those
    that are not designated as cash flow hedges, is based on the
    estimated amount at which they could be settled based on forward
    market exchange rates.

52

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

k.  Use
    of Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial
    statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses
    during the reporting period. Such estimates relate to the useful
    lives of fixed assets and identified intangible assets,
    allowances for doubtful accounts and customer returns, the net
    realizable value of inventory, potential reserves relating to
    litigation matters, accrued liabilities, accrued taxes, deferred
    tax valuation allowances, assumptions pertaining to share-based
    payments and other reserves. Actual results could differ from
    those estimates, and such differences may be material to the
    financial statements.

l.  Concentrations
    of Risk   

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to
    concentrations of credit risk consist principally of investments
    and trade accounts receivable.

The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments and long-term investments with high credit quality
    financial institutions and monitors the amount of credit
    exposure to any one financial institution and issuer.

The Company sells its products to distributors and original
    equipment manufacturers involved in a variety of industries
    including industrial process automation, instrumentation,
    defense/aerospace, automotive, communications, computers and
    computer peripherals and consumer electronics. The Company has
    adopted credit policies and standards to accommodate growth in
    these markets. The Company performs continuing credit
    evaluations of its customers  financial condition and
    although the Company generally does not require collateral,
    letters of credit may be required from its customers in certain
    circumstances. Reserves are provided for estimated amounts of
    accounts receivable that may not be collected.

m.  Concentration
    of Other Risks   

The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid
    technological change, competitive pricing pressures and cyclical
    market patterns. The Company s financial results are
    affected by a wide variety of factors, including general
    economic conditions worldwide, economic conditions specific to
    the semiconductor industry, the timely implementation of new
    manufacturing technologies, the ability to safeguard patents and
    intellectual property in a rapidly evolving market and reliance
    on assembly and test subcontractors, third-party wafer
    fabricators and independent distributors. In addition, the
    semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject
    to significant economic downturns at various times. The Company
    is exposed to the risk of obsolescence of its inventory
    depending on the mix of future business. Additionally, the
    Company utilizes third-party wafer fabricators as sole-source
    suppliers, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company
    for certain products. As a result, the Company may experience
    significant
     period-to-period 
    fluctuations in future operating results due to the factors
    mentioned above or other factors.

n.  Revenue
    Recognition   

Revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to
    distributors are deferred until the distributors resell the
    products to end-users. Deferred amounts are presented net and
    included as  Deferred income on shipments to
    distributors  in the Company s consolidated balance
    sheets. Revenue from product sales to end-users is recognized
    when title passes, which for shipments to certain foreign
    countries is subsequent to product shipment. Title for these
    shipments ordinarily passes within a week of shipment. A reserve
    for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based
    on historical experience or specific identification of an event
    necessitating a reserve.

Shipping costs are charged to cost of sales as incurred.

53

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Company generally offers a
     12-month 
    warranty for its products. The Company s warranty policy
    provides for replacement of the defective product. Specific
    accruals are recorded for known product warranty issues. Product
    warranty expenses during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were not
    material.

o.  Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income   

Other comprehensive (loss) income includes certain transactions
    that have generally been reported in the consolidated statement
    of shareholders  equity. Accumulated other comprehensive
    (loss) income is comprised of minimum pension liability
    adjustments, unrealized gains (losses) on
     available-for-sale 
    securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and net
    unrealized gain (loss) on derivative instruments designated as
    cash flow hedges.

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income at
    October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005 consisted of the
    following:

p.  Advertising
    Expense   

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense
    was $10.9 million in fiscal 2006, $10.5 million in
    fiscal 2005 and $11.9 million in fiscal 2004.

q.  Income
    Taxes   

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the
    differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets
    and liabilities and are measured using the enacted income tax
    rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the
    temporary differences are expected to reverse. Additionally,
    deferred tax assets and liabilities are separated into current
    and noncurrent amounts based on the classification of the
    related assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes.

r.  Earnings
    Per Share of Common Stock   

Basic earnings per share is computed based only on the weighted
    average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
    Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted
    average number of common shares outstanding during the period,
    plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common
    stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially
    dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In
    calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of
    stock options is computed using the average market price for the
    respective period. In addition, under SFAS 123R, the
    assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the
    average unrecognized compensation expense of stock options that
    are
     in-the-money. 
    This results in the  assumed  buyback of additional
    shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options.
    Potential shares related to certain of the Company s
    outstanding stock options were excluded because they were
    anti-dilutive. Those potential shares, determined based on the
    weighted average exercise prices during the respective years,
    related to the Company s outstanding stock options could be
    dilutive in the future.

54

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
    diluted earnings per share:

s.  Stock-Based
    Compensation   

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment
     (SFAS 123R). SFAS 123R supersedes APB Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ,
    and amends SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash
    Flows.  Generally, the approach in SFAS 123R is similar
    to the approach described in SFAS 123  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation.  However, SFAS 123R requires
    all share-based payments to employees, including grants of
    employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement
    over their vesting period based on their fair values at the date
    of grant. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative.

On October 30, 2005 (the first day of its 2006 fiscal
    year), the Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified
    prospective method as permitted under SFAS 123R. Under this
    transition method, compensation cost recognized in fiscal 2006
    includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based
    payments granted prior to but not yet vested as of
    October 29, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123,
    and (b) compensation cost for all share-based payments
    granted subsequent to October 29, 2005, based on the
    grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS 123R. In accordance with the modified
    prospective method of adoption, the Company s results of
    operations and financial position for prior periods have not
    been restated.

See Note 3 for additional information relating to
    stock-based compensation.

t.  New
    Accounting Standards   

Accounting
    for Prior Year Misstatements  

In September 2006, the United States Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB)
    No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
    Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
    Financial Statements  (SAB 108). This SAB provides
    guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year
    misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the
    purpose of a materiality assessment. SAB 108 establishes an
    approach that requires quantification of financial statement
    errors based on the effects of each of the company s
    balance sheet and statement of operations financial statements
    and the related financial statement disclosures. The SAB permits
    existing public companies to record the cumulative effect of
    initially

55

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

applying this approach in the first year ending after
    November 15, 2006 by recording the necessary correcting
    adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as
    of the beginning of that year with the offsetting adjustment
    recorded to the opening balance of retained earnings.
    Additionally, the use of the cumulative effect transition method
    requires detailed disclosure of the nature and amount of each
    individual error being corrected through the cumulative
    adjustment and how and when it arose. The Company is currently
    evaluating the impact, if any, that SAB 108 may have on the
    Company s financial conditions, results of operations or
    liquidity.

Accounting
    for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans  

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS)
    No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
    Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   An Amendment
    of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R
     (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires companies to
    recognize the funded status of pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans on sponsoring employers  balance sheets and
    to recognize changes in the funded status in the year the
    changes occur. It also requires the measurement date of plan
    assets and obligations to occur at the end of the
    employers  fiscal year.

SFAS 158 is effective for the Company at the end of fiscal
    2007, except for the change in measurement date, which is
    effective for the Company in fiscal 2008. The effect on the
    Company s financial statements is dependent upon the
    discount rate at the Company s fiscal 2007 measurement date
    (September 30, 2007) and actual returns on the
    Company s pension plan assets during the year. The Company
    is currently evaluating the impact, if any, that SFAS 158
    may have on the Company s financial conditions, results of
    operations or liquidity.

Accounting
    for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48).
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in
    accordance with SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes.   FIN 48 prescribes a recognition
    threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
    recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
    to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance
    on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
    accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.
    FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the
    impact, if any, that FIN 48 may have on the Company s
    financial condition results of operations or liquidity.

Accounting
    Changes and Error Corrections  

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
     (SFAS 154) which supersedes APB Opinion
    No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and SFAS No. 3,
     Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
    Statements.  SFAS 154 provides guidance on the
    accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
    corrections. It establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective
    application as the required method for reporting a change in
    accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition
    requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle.
    The correction of an error in previously issued financial
    statements is not an accounting change. However, the reporting
    of an error correction involves adjustments to previously issued
    financial statements similar to those generally applicable to
    reporting an accounting change retroactively. Therefore, the
    reporting of a correction of an error by restating previously
    issued financial statements is also addressed by this statement.
    SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154 in fiscal
    2006 did not have a material impact on the Company s
    financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Asset
    Retirements  

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,
     Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
    Obligations   an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 143  (FIN 47). FIN 47 clarifies that the
    term  conditional

56

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

asset retirement obligation  as used in SFAS 143,
     Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , refers to a
    legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in
    which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional
    on a future event that may or may not be within the control of
    the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement
    activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about
    the timing and (or) method of settlement. Uncertainty about the
    timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset
    retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of
    the liability when sufficient information exists. FIN 47
    also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information
    to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement
    obligation. FIN 47 is effective no later than the end of
    fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The adoption
    of FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 did not
    impact the Company s financial condition, results of
    operations or liquidity.

Inventory
    Costs  

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
     Inventory Costs, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin
    (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4  (SFAS 151).
    SFAS 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43,
    Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify that
    abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
    costs, and wasted material (spoilage) should be recognized as
    current-period charges. In addition, SFAS 151 requires that
    allocation of fixed production overhead to the costs of
    conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
    facilities. The provisions of SFAS 151 are effective for
    fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of
    SFAS 151 in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 did not impact
    the Company s financial condition, results of operations or
    liquidity.

3.    

Stock-Based
    Compensation and Shareholders  Equity  

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment
     (SFAS 123R). SFAS 123R supersedes APB Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ,
    and amends SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash
    Flows.  Generally, the approach in SFAS 123R is similar
    to the approach described in SFAS 123  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation.  However, SFAS 123R requires
    all share-based payments to employees, including grants of
    employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement
    over their vesting period based on their fair values at the date
    of grant. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative.

On October 30, 2005 (the first day of its 2006 fiscal
    year), the Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified
    prospective method as permitted under SFAS 123R. Under this
    transition method, compensation cost recognized in fiscal 2006
    includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based
    payments granted prior to but not yet vested as of
    October 29, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123,
    and (b) compensation cost for all share-based payments
    granted subsequent to October 29, 2005, based on the
    grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS 123R. In accordance with the modified
    prospective method of adoption, the Company s results of
    operations and financial position for prior periods have not
    been restated.

Equity
    Compensation Plans   

The Company grants, or has granted, stock options and other
    stock and stock-based awards under the following equity
    compensation plans:

2006 Stock Incentive Plan (2006 Plan)    The
    2006 Plan was approved by the Company s Board of Directors
    on January 23, 2006 and was approved by shareholders on
    March 14, 2006 and subsequently amended in March 2006. The
    2006 Plan provides for the grant of up to 15 million shares
    of the Company s common stock, plus such number of
    additional shares that were subject to outstanding options under
    the Company s 1998 Stock Option Plan and the 2001
    Broad-Based Stock Option Plan as of January 23, 2006 that
    are not issued because the applicable option award subsequently
    terminates or expires without being exercised. The 2006 Plan
    provides for the grant of incentive stock options intended to
    qualify under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended, or non-statutory stock options, stock
    appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units
    and other stock-based

57

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

awards. Employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors
    of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to be granted
    awards under the 2006 Plan. No award may be made under the 2006
    Plan after March 13, 2016, but awards previously granted
    may extend beyond that date. The Company will not grant further
    options under the 1998 Plan or the 2001 Plan.

2001 Broad-Based Stock Option Plan (2001
    Plan)    The 2001 Plan was adopted by the
    Company s Board of Directors in December 2001 and
    subsequently amended in December 2002. The 2001 Plan provides
    for the issuance of options to purchase up to 50 million
    shares of common stock to employees, consultants or advisors of
    the Company and its subsidiaries, other than executive officers
    and directors. As a result of the approval of the 2006 Plan, no
    further grants were made under the 2001 Plan.

The 1998 Stock Option Plan (1998 Plan)    The
    1998 Plan was approved by shareholders in fiscal 1998 and
    subsequently amended in December 2001 and December 2002. The
    1998 Plan provides for the issuance of nonstatutory and
    incentive stock options to purchase up to 30 million shares
    of common stock. In March 2000, the Company s shareholders
    approved an amendment to the 1998 Plan to increase the shares
    reserved for issuance under the 1998 Plan by an additional
    34 million shares. As a result of the approval of the 2006
    Plan, no further grants were made under the 1998 Plan.

While the Company may grant to employees options that become
    exercisable at different times or within different periods, the
    Company has generally granted to employees options that vest
    over five years and become exercisable in annual installments of
    33 1 / 3 %
    on each of the third, fourth, and fifth anniversaries of the
    date of grant; in annual installments of 25% on each of the
    second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of
    grant; or 20% on each of the first, second, third, fourth and
    fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. The maximum
    contractual term of all options is ten years.

Employee Stock Purchase Plans    The Company
    also has employee stock purchase plans (ESPPs) that allow
    eligible employees to purchase, through payroll deductions,
    shares of the Company s common stock at 85% of the fair
    market value at specified dates. Employees may withdraw from an
    offering before the purchase date and obtain a refund of the
    amounts withheld through payroll deductions plus accrued
    interest. The latest offering period began June 1, 2005 and
    ended on June 1, 2006; therefore, June 1, 2005 is
    considered the grant date for the purposes of recognizing the
    stock-based compensation expense for that offering period.
    During fiscal 2006, the Company s Board of Directors
    decided that the latest offering period, which ended
    June 1, 2006, would be the last offering period under the
    ESPPs. Under APB Opinion No. 25, the Company was not
    required to recognize stock-based compensation expense for the
    cost of stock options or shares issued under the Company s
    ESPPs. Upon adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company began
    recording stock-based compensation expense related to the ESPPs.

58

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Grant-Date
    Fair Value   

The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to
    calculate the grant-date fair value of an award. The fair values
    of options granted were calculated using the following estimated
    weighted-average assumptions:

Expected volatility   The Company is responsible for
    estimating volatility and has considered a number of factors,
    including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. For
    options granted prior to fiscal 2005, the Company used
    historical volatility to estimate the grant-date fair value of
    stock options. The Company changed its method of estimating
    expected volatility for all stock options granted after fiscal
    2004 from exclusively relying on historical volatility to
    exclusively relying on implied volatility. This change was the
    result of a thorough review the Company undertook, which
    included consultations with several third-party advisors. The
    Company currently believes that the exclusive use of implied
    volatility results in a more accurate estimate of the grant-date
    fair value of employee stock options because it more
    appropriately reflects the market s current expectations of
    future volatility. Historical volatility during the period
    commensurate with the expected term of the Company s stock
    options over the past several years included a period of time
    when the Company s stock price experienced unprecedented
    increases and subsequent declines. The Company believes that
    this past stock price volatility is unlikely to be indicative of
    future stock price behavior. Options in the Company s
    common stock are actively traded on several exchanges. Implied
    volatility is calculated for the period that is commensurate
    with the option s expected term assumption. Because this
    term often exceeds the period for which there are
    exchange-traded options in the Company s common stock,
    statistical techniques are used to derive the implied volatility
    for traded options with terms commensurate with the
    option s expected term of five years. This calculation of
    implied volatility is derived from the closing prices of both
    the Company s common stock and exchange traded options from
    the most recent five trading days prior to the grant date of the
    employee stock option.

Expected term   The Company uses historical employee
    exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected
    term assumption for the Black-Scholes grant-date valuation. The
    Company believes that this historical data is currently the best
    estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that
    generally its employees exhibit similar exercise behavior.

Risk-free interest rate   The yield on zero-coupon
    U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate
    with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free
    interest rate.

Expected dividend yield   Expected dividend yield is
    calculated by annualizing the cash dividend declared by the
    Company s Board of Directors for the current quarter and
    dividing that result by the closing stock price on the date of
    grant. Until such time as the Company s Board of Directors
    declares a cash dividend for an amount that is different from
    the current quarter s cash dividend, the current dividend
    will be used in deriving this assumption. Cash dividends are not
    paid on options, restricted stock or restricted stock units.

59

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Stock-based
    Compensation Expense   

The Company used the graded attribution method to recognize
    expense for all stock-based awards prior to the adoption of
    SFAS 123R. Upon adoption of SFAS 123R on
    October 30, 2005, the Company changed to the straight-line
    attribution method to recognize expense for stock-based awards
    granted after October 29, 2005. The change to the
    straight-line attribution method was made so that the expense
    associated with each stock-based award is recognized evenly over
    the vesting period. The expense associated with the unvested
    portion of the pre-adoption grants will continue to be expensed
    using the graded attribution method.

The amount of stock-based compensation recognized during a
    period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that
    are ultimately expected to vest. SFAS 123R requires
    forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if
    necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ
    from those estimates. The term  forfeitures  is
    distinct from  cancellations  or
     expirations  and represents only the unvested portion
    of the surrendered stock-based award. The Company currently
    expects, based on an analysis of its historical forfeitures,
    that approximately 84% of its stock-based awards will vest, and
    therefore has applied an annual forfeiture rate of 3.4% to all
    unvested stock-based awards as of October 28, 2006. The
    3.4% represents the portion that is expected to be forfeited
    each year over the vesting period; therefore, the cumulative
    amount, on a compounded basis, that is expected to be forfeited
    is approximately 16% of the aggregate stock-based awards. This
    analysis will be re-evaluated quarterly and the forfeiture rate
    will be adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense
    recognized over the vesting period will only be for those shares
    that vest.

The Company s stock option agreements historically provided
    for retirement-related continued vesting for a portion, or all,
    of certain stock options based on the optionee s age and
    years of service (the retirement provision) in that regardless
    of whether the employee continues to provide services, the
    optionee receives the benefit of the stock option.
    SFAS 123R clarifies the timing for recognizing stock-based
    compensation expense for awards subject to continued vesting
    upon meeting this retirement provision. This compensation
    expense must be recognized over the period from the date of
    grant to the date retirement eligibility is met if it is shorter
    than the required service period. Upon adoption of
    SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company
    changed its policy regarding the timing of option expense
    recognition for optionees meeting the criteria of the retirement
    provision to recognize compensation cost over the period through
    the date that the optionee is no longer required to provide
    service to earn the award. Prior to the adoption of
    SFAS 123R, the Company s policy was to recognize these
    compensation costs over the vesting term. Had the Company
    applied these non-substantive vesting provisions required by
    SFAS 123R to awards granted prior to the adoption of
    SFAS 123R, the impact on the pro forma net earnings
    presented below would have been immaterial. Effective during the
    third fiscal quarter of fiscal 2006, new grants will not include
    a provision that provides for retirement-related continued
    vesting.

The adoption of SFAS 123R on October 30, 2005 had the
    following impact on fiscal 2006 results: operating profit before
    tax was lower by $73.9 million, net income was lower by
    $52.6 million, cash flow from operations was lower by
    $181.2 million, cash flow from financing activities was
    higher by $181.2 million and basic and diluted EPS were
    lower by $0.15 and $0.14, respectively.

60

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table details the effect on net income and
    earnings per share had stock-based compensation expense been
    recorded for the fiscal years 2005 and 2004 based on the
    fair-value method under SFAS 123,  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation. 

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, on October 18,
    2005, the Company accelerated the vesting of all unvested stock
    options awarded to employees after December 31, 2000 that
    had exercise prices of $40.00 per share or greater. Options
    issued to its corporate officers and directors were not
    accelerated. Unvested options to purchase approximately
    18 million shares became exercisable as a result of the
    vesting acceleration. Because the exercise price of all the
    modified options was greater than the market price of the
    Company s underlying common stock on the date of the
    modification, no stock-based compensation expense was recorded
    in the statement of income, in accordance with APB Opinion
    No. 25. The primary purpose for modifying the terms of
    these
     out-of-the-money 
    stock options to accelerate their vesting was to eliminate the
    need to recognize the remaining unrecognized non-cash
    compensation expense in the statement of income associated with
    these options as measured under SFAS 123, because the
    approximately $188 million ($134 million net of tax)
    of future expense associated with these options would have been
    disproportionately high compared to the economic value of the
    options at the date of modification.

As disclosed in Note 13, on November 15, 2005, the
    Company announced that it reached a tentative settlement with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, of the
    SEC s previously announced investigation into certain
    option grants made by the Company. The Company has determined
    that no restatement of its historical financial results would be
    necessary due to the proposed settlement because the effects of
    using revised measurement dates for options granted in 1998,
    1999 and 2001 are not material to any of the fiscal years 1998
    through 2005, based on the materiality guidelines contained in
    Staff Accounting Bulletin 99,  Materiality
     (SAB 99). Accordingly, the table presented above has
    not been restated to reflect the effects of using the revised
    measurement dates.

61

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Stock-Based
    Compensation Activity   

A summary of the activity under the Company s stock option
    plans as of October 28, 2006 and changes during the fiscal
    year then ended is presented below:

(1)  

In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion
    of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future.
    Options expected to vest is calculated by applying an estimated
    forfeiture rate to the unvested options. 

The total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e. the
    difference between the market price at exercise and the price
    paid by the employee to exercise the options) during fiscal 2006
    was $113.6 million and the total amount of cash received by
    the Company from exercise of these options was
    $82.4 million. The total grant-date fair value of stock
    options that vested during fiscal 2006 was approximately
    $145.5 million.

A summary of the Company s restricted stock award activity
    as of October 28, 2006 and changes during the year then
    ended is presented below:

As of October 28, 2006, there was $156.6 million of
    total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested
    share-based awards including stock options and restricted
    shares. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 1.7 years.

62

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Information with respect to activity under the stock option
    plans is set forth below:

(1)  

The 2006 Plan provides that for purposes of determining the
    number of shares available for issuance under the 2006 Plan, any
    restricted stock award, restricted stock unit or other
    stock-based award with a per share or per unit price lower than
    the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant
    (a  Full-Value Award ) will be counted as three shares
    for each share subject to the Full-Value Award. 

As of October 28, 2006, a total of 102,486,091 common
    shares were reserved for issuance under the Company s stock
    plans.

Common
    Stock Repurchase  

In August 2004, the Company s Board of Directors approved
    the repurchase of up to $500 million of the Company s
    common stock. On May 11, 2005, the Company s Board of
    Directors amended the stock repurchase program by increasing the
    total amount of the Company s common stock the Company is
    authorized to repurchase from $500 million to
    $1 billion of common stock. On March 14, 2006, the
    Board of Directors authorized the repurchase by the Company of
    an additional $1 billion of the Company s common
    stock, increasing the total amount of the Company s common
    stock the Company can repurchase from $1 billion to
    $2 billion of the Company s common stock. Under the
    repurchase program, the Company may repurchase outstanding
    shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market
    and through privately negotiated transactions. Unless terminated
    earlier by resolution of the Company s Board of Directors,
    the repurchase program will expire when the Company has
    repurchased all shares authorized under the program. The Company
    repurchased a total of 30.7 million shares for
    approximately $1,025 million during fiscal 2006. As of
    October 28, 2006, the Company had repurchased

63

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

approximately 49 million shares of its common stock for
    approximately $1,688 million under this program. The
    repurchased shares are held as authorized but unissued shares of
    common stock.

Preferred
    Stock  

The Company has 471,934 authorized shares of $1.00 par
    value preferred stock, none of which is issued or outstanding.
    The Board of Directors is authorized to fix designations,
    relative rights, preferences and limitations on the preferred
    stock at the time of issuance.

Common
    Stock Purchase Rights  

In March 1998, the Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder
    Rights Plan (the Stockholder Rights Plan) that replaced a plan
    adopted by the Board in 1988. Pursuant to the Stockholder Rights
    Plan, after giving effect to the Company s
     two-for-one 
    stock split effected on March 15, 2000, each share of the
    Company s common stock had an associated one-half of a
    right. Under certain circumstances, each whole right would have
    entitled the registered holder to purchase from the Company one
    one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $180 in cash, subject to
    adjustment.

On January 23, 2006, the Company, by vote of its Board of
    Directors, terminated its Stockholder Rights Plan. All rights
    outstanding under the Stockholder Rights Plan were redeemed at a
    redemption price of $0.0005 per right (as adjusted to
    reflect the
     two-for-one 
    split of the Company s common stock on March 15, 2000)
    (as adjusted, the  Redemption Price ) and paid on
    March 15, 2006 to the holders of record of the
    Company s common stock on February 24, 2006. All
    rights to exercise rights issued under the Stockholder Rights
    Plan terminated on January 23, 2006 and the only right
    thereafter of the holders of rights issued under the Stockholder
    Rights Plan was to receive the Redemption Price.

4.    

Industry
    and Geographic Segment Information  

The Company operates and tracks its results in one reportable
    segment. The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets
    a broad range of integrated circuits. The Chief Executive
    Officer has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision
    Maker as defined by SFAS 131,  Disclosures about Segments
    of an Enterprise and Related Information. 

64

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Geographic
    Information  

The Company operates in the following major geographic areas.
    Trade sales data is based upon point of sale and property, plant
    and equipment data is based upon physical location. The
    predominant countries comprising European operations are
    Ireland, England, France and Germany. The predominant countries
    comprising Rest of Asia are Taiwan and Korea.

5.    

Special
    Charges  

A summary of the Company s special charges is as follows:

65

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Closure
    of Wafer Fabrication Facility  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recorded a
    special charge of $20.3 million as a result of a decision
    to close its California wafer fabrication operations and
    transfer virtually all of the production of products
    manufactured there to the Company s facility located in
    Wilmington, Massachusetts. The charge was for severance and
    fringe benefit costs that were recorded pursuant to
    SFAS 88,  Employers  Accounting for Settlements and
    Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for
    Termination Benefits , under the Company s ongoing
    benefit plan for 339 manufacturing employees and 28 general
    and administrative employees at that site. The severance benefit
    is calculated based on length of past service, and employees
    must continue to be employed until they are involuntarily
    terminated in order to receive the severance benefit. As of
    October 28, 2006, 72 of these employees remained employed
    at the Company. The employment of 42 of these employees was
    terminated on November 9, 2006. The remaining 30 employees
    will continue working over the next three months on the cleanup
    and closure of the wafer fabrication facility.

In addition to the charge recorded in the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2005, the Company recorded additional expense during
    fiscal 2006, which consisted of $18.3 million of non-cash
    cost of sales expenses for additional depreciation due to
    shortened useful lives of certain manufacturing equipment and
    $2.0 million for stay-on bonuses. The Company reversed
    approximately $2.0 million of its severance accrual during
    fiscal 2006. The accrual reversal was required because some
    employees voluntarily left the Company, other employees found
    alternative employment within the Company, and there was an over
    accrual related to fringe benefits because severance payments,
    normally paid as income continuance, were paid as lump sum
    payments which reduced the benefit costs associated with these
    terminated employees.

The Company completed production at the wafer fabrication
    facility on November 9, 2006. The Company expects to incur
    additional expense related to this action in the first half of
    fiscal 2007 of approximately $11 million for lease
    termination, cleanup and closure costs. In accordance with
    SFAS 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
    Disposal Activities , the lease charge will be taken when the
    Company ceases using the building and the cleanup and closure
    costs will be expensed as incurred.

Reorganization
    of Product Development and Support Programs  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recorded a
    special charge of $11.2 million as a result of its decision
    to reorganize its product development and support programs with
    the goal of providing greater focus on its analog and DSP
    product programs. The charge was for severance and fringe
    benefit costs that were recorded pursuant to SFAS 88,
     Employers  Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments
    of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination
    Benefits , under the Company s ongoing benefit plan or
    statutory requirements at foreign locations for 60 manufacturing
    employees and 154 engineering and selling, marketing, general
    and administrative employees. These employees must continue to
    be employed until they are involuntarily terminated in order to
    receive the severance benefit. As of October 28, 2006, 23
    of these employees were still employed by the Company.

66

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

During fiscal 2006, the Company recorded an additional special
    charge of $3.8 million related to this reorganization
    action. Approximately $1.5 million of this charge was for
    lease obligation costs for a facility the Company ceased using
    during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and the write-off of
    property, plant and equipment and other items at this
    subsidiary. The remaining $2.3 million relates to the
    severance and fringe benefit costs that were recorded in the
    fourth quarter pursuant to SFAS 88,  Employers 
    Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit
    Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits , under the
    Company s ongoing benefit plan or statutory requirements at
    foreign locations for 46 engineering and selling, marketing,
    general and administrative employees. These employees must
    continue to be employed until they are involuntarily terminated
    in order to receive the severance benefit. As of
    October 28, 2006, 35 of these employees were still employed
    by the Company.

6.    

Acquisitions  

In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company completed a
    transaction with TTPCom Limited (TTPCom), whereby TTPCom
    transferred to the Company intellectual property, engineering
    resources, and related assets associated with the support and
    customization of TTPCom s GSM/GPRS/EDGE modem software for
    use on the Company s existing and future generations of
    SoftFone   
    baseband processors. The Company also acquired development
    rights for AJAR, TTPCom s advanced applications platform.
    As a result of this transaction, the Company is the single point
    of contact for both hardware and software support for its new
    and existing wireless handset customers, thus improving the
    Company s abilities to service the needs of individual
    customers. The Company paid $11.9 million in initial cash
    payments and may become obligated to make additional cash
    payments of up to an aggregate of $12 million based on the
    achievement of technological milestoned during the period from
    May 2006 through November 2006. The purchase price was allocated
    to the tangible and intangible assets acquired based on their
    estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The estimated
    fair values of the assets exceeded the initial payments by
    $7.8 million, resulting in negative goodwill. Pursuant to
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141,
     Business Combinations , the Company recorded a liability
    for the contingent consideration that will be accounted for as
    additional purchase price, up to the amount of the negative
    goodwill. As contingent payments become due, the payments will
    be applied against the contingent liability. Contingent payments
    in excess of $7.8 million, if any, will be recorded as
    additional purchase price. As of October 28, 2006, the
    Company had paid $6 million of contingent payments, and the
    remaining contingent liability was $1.8 million. The
    purchase price included $5.5 million of in-process
    technology that had not yet reached technological feasibility,
    had no alternative future use and was charged to operations
    during the third quarter of fiscal 2006. The in-process
    technology related to software code developed for use in the
    Company s semiconductor chipsets manufactured for devices
    that use both the 2G and 2.5G cellular wireless technology
    standards. The fair value of the in-process technology was
    determined by a third party using the income forecast method,
    which is a discounted net cash flow approach. At the time of the
    acquisition, the in-process technology was approximately 56%
    complete. As of October 28, 2006, the in-process research
    and development projects are on schedule. The Company expects to
    complete these projects in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and
    incur an additional $1.3 million of expense related to
    these projects. The acquisition also included $13.2 million
    of intangible assets (see Note 2f) that will be amortized
    over their estimated useful lives of five years using an
    accelerated amortization method that reflects the estimated
    pattern of economic use.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company acquired
    substantially all the outstanding stock of privately-held
    Integrant Technologies, Inc. (Integrant) of Seoul, Korea. The
    acquisition enabled the Company to enter the mobile TV market as
    well as strengthened its presence in the Asian region. The
    Company paid $127.2 million in initial cash payments at
    closing and may be obligated to make additional cash payments of
    up to an aggregate of $33 million upon the satisfaction of
    certain conditions. The initial cash payments include
    $4.2 million held in escrow for the purchase of the
    remaining non-founder outstanding shares. The preliminary
    purchase price was allocated to the tangible and intangible
    assets acquired based on their estimated fair values at the date
    of acquisition. The Company expects to complete the purchase
    accounting in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 upon obtaining
    certain additional information. The $33 million of
    potential cash payments is comprised of $25 million for the
    achievement

67

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

of revenue-based milestones that may be payable during the
    period from July 2006 through December 2007 and $8 million
    related to the purchase of shares from the founder of Integrant
    during the period from July 2007 through July 2009. The
    additional cash payments, if any, will be recorded as additional
    purchase price. The purchase price included $11.1 million
    of in-process technology that had not yet reached technological
    feasibility, had no alternative future use and was charged to
    operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The
    in-process technology related to technologies currently in
    development for Dual DAB, T-DMB, DVB-H, RFID and WiBro
    applications. The fair value of the in-process technology was
    determined by a third party using the income forecast method,
    which is a discounted net cash flow approach. At the time of the
    acquisition, the in-process technology was approximately 74%
    complete. As of October 28, 2006, the in-process research
    and development projects are on schedule. The Company expects to
    complete these projects in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and
    incur an additional $3.3 million of expense related to
    these projects. The acquisition also included $21.6 million
    of intangible assets (see Note 2f) that will be amortized
    over their estimated useful lives of two to five years using an
    accelerated amortization method that reflects the estimated
    pattern of economic use.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company acquired all
    the outstanding stock of privately-held AudioAsics A/S
    (AudioAsics) of Roskilde, Denmark. The acquisition of AudioAsics
    allows the Company to continue developing low-power audio
    solutions, while expanding its presence in the Nordic and
    Eastern European regions. The Company paid $19.3 million in
    initial cash payments at closing and may be obligated to make
    additional cash payments of up to an aggregate of
    $8 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. The
    purchase price was allocated to the tangible and intangible
    assets acquired based on their estimated fair values at the date
    of acquisition. The $8 million of potential cash payments
    is comprised $4.8 million for the achievement of
    revenue-based milestones that may be payable during the period
    from October 2006 through January 2009 and $3.2 million
    based on the achievement of certain technological milestones
    during the period from October 2006 through January 2009. In
    order to be entitled to receive $2.4 million of the
    revenue-based contingent consideration, certain key employees
    must continue to be employed by the Company. As such, that
    portion of the revenue-based contingent consideration will be
    recorded as compensation expense when, and if, it is earned. The
    technological milestones require post-acquisition services to be
    rendered in order to be achieved and, as such, will be recorded
    as compensation expense when earned. The purchase price included
    $5.1 million of in-process technology that had not yet
    reached technological feasibility, had no alternative future use
    and was charged to operations during the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2006. The in-process technology related to technologies
    currently in development for analog and digital microphone
     pre-amplifiers. 
    The fair value of the in-process technology was determined by a
    third party using the income forecast method, which is a
    discounted net cash flow approach. At the time of the
    acquisition, the in-process technology was approximately 69%
    complete. As of October 28, 2006, the in-process research
    and development projects are on schedule. The Company expects to
    complete these projects by April 2007 and incur an additional
    $1.0 million of expense related to these projects The
    acquisition also included $8.3 million of intangible assets
    (see Note 2f) that will be amortized over their estimated
    useful lives of five years using an accelerated amortization
    method that reflects the estimated pattern of economic use.

Pro forma results of operations for TTPCom, Integrant and
    AudioAsics have not been provided herein as they were not
    material to the Company on either an individual or an aggregate
    basis. The results of operations of each acquisition are
    included in the Company s consolidated statement of income
    from the date of such acquisition.

68

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

7.    

Deferred
    Compensation Plan Investments  

Deferred compensation plan investments are classified as trading
    and the components of the investments as of October 28,
    2006 and October 29, 2005 were as follows:

The fair values of these investments are based on published
    market quotes on October 28, 2006 and October 29,
    2005, respectively. Adjustments to fair value of, and income
    pertaining to, deferred compensation plan investments are
    recorded in operating expenses. Gross realized and unrealized
    gains and losses from trading securities were not material in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004.

Investments are offset by a corresponding liability to the plan
    participants (see Note 11). These investments are
    specifically designated as available to the Company solely for
    the purpose of paying benefits under the Company s deferred
    compensation plan. However, in the event the Company became
    insolvent, the investments would be available to all unsecured
    general creditors.

During fiscal 2006, the Company distributed $254.1 million
    from its amended and restated deferred compensation plan, or the
    Deferred Compensation Plan, as a result of participant
    terminations or at the direction of the participants. This
    amount represented compensation
     and/or  stock
    option gains previously deferred by those participants pursuant
    to the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan and earnings on
    those deferred amounts. As a result of certain provisions of the
    American Jobs Creation Act, participants had the opportunity
    until December 31, 2005 to elect to withdraw amounts
    previously deferred.

8.    

Other
    Investments  

Other investments consist of equity securities and other
    long-term investments. Investments are stated at fair value,
    which is based on market quotes, interest rates or management
    estimates, as appropriate. Adjustments to fair value of
    investments classified as
     available-for-sale 
    are recorded as an increase or decrease in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss), unless the adjustment is considered
    an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment, in which case the adjustment is recorded as a charge
    in the statement of income.

There were no realized gains or losses recorded in fiscal 2006
    or 2005. Realized losses of $1.7 million were recorded in
    fiscal 2004.

Unrealized losses of $0.7 million ($0.4 million net of
    tax) were recorded in fiscal 2006, unrealized losses of
    $1.4 million ($0.9 million net of tax) were recorded
    in fiscal 2005 and unrealized gains of $1.8 million
    ($1.2 million net of tax) were recorded in fiscal 2004.

Long-term investments classified as
     available-for-sale 
    were approximately $0.9 million and $2.4 million at
    October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005, respectively.

69

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

9.    

Accrued
    Liabilities  

Accrued liabilities at October 28, 2006 and
    October 29, 2005 consisted of the following:

10.    

Debt and
    Credit Facilities  

The Company had no debt or short-term borrowings outstanding at
    October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005.

11.    

Deferred
    Compensation Plan Liability and Other Noncurrent
    Liabilities  

The deferred compensation plan liability relates to obligations
    due under the Analog Devices, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
    (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ). The Deferred
    Compensation Plan allows certain members of management and other
    highly-compensated employees and non-employee directors to defer
    receipt of all or any portion of their compensation. Prior to
    January 1, 2005, participants could also defer gains on
    stock options and restricted stock granted before July 23,
    1997. The balance represents Deferred Compensation Plan
    participant accumulated deferrals, and earnings thereon, since
    the inception of the Deferred Compensation Plan, net of
    withdrawals. The total expense to the Company of the Deferred
    Compensation Plan was $1.0 million in fiscal 2006,
    $9.9 million in fiscal 2005 and $15.9 million in
    fiscal 2004. The Company s liability under the Deferred
    Compensation Plan is an unsecured general obligation of the
    Company. Other noncurrent liabilities primarily relate to
    pension liabilities.

During fiscal 2006, the Company distributed $254.1 million
    from our amended and restated deferred compensation plan, or the
    Deferred Compensation Plan, as a result of participant
    terminations or at the direction of the participants. This
    amount represented compensation
     and/or  stock
    option gains previously deferred by those participants pursuant
    to the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan and earnings on
    those deferred amounts. As a result of certain provisions of the
    American Jobs Creation Act, participants had the opportunity
    until December 31, 2005 to elect to withdraw amounts
    previously deferred.

The Company leases certain of its facilities, equipment and
    software under various operating leases that expire at various
    dates through 2020. The lease agreements frequently include
    renewal and escalation clauses and require the Company to pay
    taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Total rental expense
    under operating leases was approximately $46 million in
    fiscal 2006, $45 million in fiscal 2005 and
    $43 million in fiscal 2004.

70

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following is a schedule of future minimum rental payments
    required under long-term operating leases at October 28,
    2006:

13.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Tentative
    Settlement of the SEC s Previously Announced Stock Option
    Investigation  

In the Company s
     Form 10-K 
    filing dated November 30, 2004, the Company disclosed that
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had initiated an
    inquiry into its stock option granting practices, focusing on
    options that were granted shortly before the issuance of
    favorable financial results. On November 15, 2005, the
    Company announced that it had reached a tentative settlement
    with the SEC.

Since receiving notice of this inquiry, the Company has
    cooperated with the SEC. The Company and its President and CEO,
    Mr. Jerald G. Fishman, have made an offer of settlement to
    the Staff of the SEC, which is subject to agreement regarding
    the specific language of the SEC s administrative order and
    other settlement documents. The SEC Staff has decided to
    recommend the offer of settlement to the Commission. A final
    settlement is subject to review and approval by the Commission.

The contemplated settlement addresses two separate issues. The
    first issue concerns the Company s disclosure regarding
    grants of options to employees and directors prior to the
    release of favorable financial results. Specifically, the issue
    relates to options granted to employees  ( including
    officers )  of the Company on November 30, 1999 and to
    employees  ( including officers )  and directors of
    the Company on November 10, 2000. The SEC settlement would
    conclude that the Company should have made disclosures in its
    proxy filings to the effect that the Company priced these stock
    options prior to releasing favorable financial results.

The second issue addressed by the tentative settlement concerns
    the grant dates for options granted to employees
     ( including officers )  in 1998 and 1999, and the
    grant date for options granted to employees (including
    officers )  and directors in 2001. Specifically, the
    settlement would conclude that the appropriate grant date for
    the September 4, 1998 options should have been
    September 8th (which is one trading day later than the
    date that was used to price the options); the appropriate grant
    date for the November 30, 1999 options should have been
    November 29th (which is one trading day earlier than
    the date that was used); and the appropriate grant date for the
    July 18, 2001 options should have been
    July 26th (which is five trading days after the
    original date).

In connection with the contemplated settlement, the Company
    would consent to a
     cease-and-desist 
    order under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
    and
     Rule 10b-5 
    thereunder, would pay a civil money penalty of $3 million,
    and would reprice options granted to Mr. Fishman and other
    directors in certain years. Options granted to all other
    employees would be excluded from the repricing. Mr. Fishman
    would consent to a
     cease-and-desist 
    order under Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the
    Securities Act, would pay a civil money penalty of
    $1 million, and would make a disgorgement payment with
    respect to options granted in certain years. With the exception
    of options granted in 1998, Mr. Fishman has not exercised
    or sold any of the options identified in this matter. The
    Company and Mr. Fishman would settle this matter without
    admitting or denying the Commission s findings.

71

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Company has determined that no restatement of its historical
    financial results would be necessary due to the proposed
    settlement, because the effects of using revised measurement
    dates for options granted in 1998, 1999 and 2001 are not
    material to any of the fiscal years 1998 through 2005, based on
    the materiality guidelines contained in SAB 99. If a
    stock-based compensation charge had been taken as a result of
    the revised measurement dates for these option grants to all
    employees (including officers) and directors, the net income of
    the Company for fiscal years 1998 through 2005 would have been
    reduced by $21.8 million in total. During this period, the
    Company earned cumulative net income of over $2.5 billion.
    There would be no impact on revenue, cash flow from operations,
    or shareholders  equity as a result of using the revised
    measurement dates. The impact on net income in individual fiscal
    years would have been as follows: fiscal 1998
    ($0.2 million), fiscal 1999 ($1.4 million), fiscal
    2000 ($1.8 million), fiscal 2001 ($3.7 million),
    fiscal 2002 ($8.1 million), fiscal 2003
    ($6.1 million), fiscal 2004 ($0.5 million).

Other
    Legal Proceedings  

On November 6, 2003, Enron Corporation commenced a
    proceeding in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
    Southern District of New York. On December 1, 2003, Enron
    filed an amended complaint to add the Company as a defendant in
    such proceeding. The amended complaint alleged that transfers
    made by Enron in satisfaction of obligations it had under
    commercial paper were recoverable as preferential transfers and
    fraudulent transfers and subject to avoidance under the United
    States Bankruptcy Code. It was alleged that payments made in
    premature satisfaction of obligations under commercial paper
    totaling approximately $20 million were recoverable from
    J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Fleet Capital Markets, Fleet
    National Bank
     and/or  the
    Company. The Company sold $20 million of Enron commercial
    paper to Fleet and did not enter into any direct transactions
    with Enron. The Company has reached a settlement with Enron,
    pursuant to which the Company contributed $2.3 million
    towards a settlement of claims brought by Enron against both the
    Company and Bank of America (as successor to Fleet Capital
    Markets and Fleet National Bank). The settlement was submitted
    to and approved by the Bankruptcy Court. In accordance with the
    terms of the settlement, a stipulation of dismissal of all
    claims against the Company with prejudice has been executed by
    Enron, Bank of America and the Company and was filed with the
    Bankruptcy Court on November 9, 2006. The Bankruptcy Court
    entered the stipulation of dismissal on November 13, 2006.

On June 14, 2005, Biax Corporation filed its first amended
    complaint for patent infringement in the United States
    District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against the
    Company and Intel Corporation, alleging that the Company
    infringed three patents owned by Biax relating to parallel
    processors. Prior to the filing of the first amended complaint,
    the Company was unaware of Biax or this action. The first
    amended complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages
    with interest, as well as Biax s costs, expenses and fees.
    On August 3, 2005, the Company filed an answer and
    counterclaimed against Biax. In the counterclaim, the Company
    seeks rulings that the patents are not infringed, the patents
    are invalid and the patents are unenforceable. On
    November 7, 2005, Biax filed a second amended complaint
    alleging that the Company infringed two additional patents. The
    case is currently in the discovery phase. The Company intends to
    vigorously defend against these allegations. The Company is
    unable at this time to predict the outcome of this litigation;
    however, the Company believes that the final disposition of this
    matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company or
    its financial position.

On or about May 5, 2006, Mr. Gregory Bender filed a
    complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District
    Court for the Eastern District of Texas against the Company.
    Prior to the filing of the complaint, the Company was unaware of
    Mr. Bender or this action. In his complaint,
    Mr. Bender alleges that certain of the Company s
    amplifier products infringe a patent Mr. Bender owns. He
    seeks unspecified damages as well as a permanent injunction
    enjoining the Company from infringing his patent.
    Mr. Bender has served his complaint on the Company and the
    Company has filed an answer. The Company intends to vigorously
    defend against these allegations. The Company cannot predict the
    outcome of this matter, but believes that the disposition of the
    matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company or
    its financial position.

72

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In May 2006, the Company received a demand from a purported
    shareholder with respect to certain grants of options made to
    directors and officers of the Company during the years 1998,
    1999 and 2001. That demand seeks, among other things ,  the
    commencement of an action by the directors of the Company on
    behalf of the Company against those directors and officers for
    breach of fiduciary duties arising from the granting of the
    options. A special committee of the Board of Directors of the
    Company was formed to review the allegations contained in the
    demand and to respond appropriately. After reviewing the facts
    underlying the allegations, the special committee decided to
    reject the purported shareholder s demand. The Company does
    not know whether the purported shareholder will take further
    action.

In May 2006, the Company received a document subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York
    requesting records from 2000 to the present relating to the
    Company s granting of stock options. The Company believes
    that the options at issue in this matter are the same option
    grants which have been the subject of investigation by the SEC.
    The Company is cooperating with the office of the
    U.S. Attorney in connection with this subpoena. The Company
    cannot predict the outcome of this matter, but believes the
    disposition of the matter will not have a material adverse
    effect on the Company or its financial position.

On June 12, 2006, a purported derivative complaint was
    filed in the United States District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts naming the Company as nominal defendant and also
    naming as defendants certain officers and directors of the
    Company. The complaint alleged purported violations of state and
    federal law in connection with the Company s option
    granting practices during the years 1998, 1999 and 2001,
    including violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, breaches of fiduciary duties of care,
    loyalty and good faith, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate
    assets, and unjust enrichment. The complaint sought monetary
    damages in unspecified amounts, as well as equitable and
    injunctive relief. On October 12, 2006, the United States
    District Court for the District of Massachusetts dismissed the
    plaintiff s complaint with prejudice and without leave to
    amend. The Company does not know whether the plaintiff will
    appeal the court s decision or otherwise pursue the action
    further.

In August 2006, the Company received a demand from a purported
    shareholder to inspect the Company s books and records
    relating to certain grants of options made to directors and
    officers of the Company at diverse times. On September 8,
    2006, the Company responded to the letter and indicated that the
    purported shareholder was not entitled to the documents sought
    in the demand. The Company does not know whether the purported
    shareholder will take further action.

On October 13, 2006, a purported class action complaint was
    filed in the United States District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts on behalf of participants in the Company s
    Investment Partnership Plan from October 5, 2000 to the
    present. The complaint named as defendants the Company, certain
    officers and directors, and the Company s Investment
    Partnership Plan Administration Committee. The complaint alleges
    purported violations of federal law in connection with the
    Company s option granting practices during the years 1998,
    1999, 2000, and 2001, including breaches of fiduciary duties
    owed to participants and beneficiaries of the Company s
    Investment Partnership Plan under the Employee Retirement Income
    Security Act. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages,
    as well as equitable and injunctive relief. The Company intends
    to vigorously defend against these allegations. Although the
    Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the asserted
    claims, it is unable at this time to predict the outcome of this
    proceeding.

From time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
    Company s business, various claims, charges and litigation
    are asserted or commenced against the Company arising from, or
    related to, contractual matters, patents, trademarks, personal
    injury, environmental matters, product liability, insurance
    coverage and personnel and employment disputes. As to such
    claims and litigation the Company can give no assurance that it
    will prevail.

While the Company does not believe that any of the matters
    described above will have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, an adverse outcome of any of
    these matters is possible and could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s consolidated results of operations
    or cash flows in the quarter or annual period in which one or
    more of these matters are resolved.

73

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Company and its subsidiaries have various savings and
    retirement plans covering substantially all employees. The
    Company maintains a defined contribution plan for the benefit of
    its eligible United States employees. This plan provides for
    Company contributions of up to 5% of each participant s
    total eligible compensation. In addition, the Company
    contributes an amount equal to each participant s pre-tax
    contribution, if any, up to a maximum of 3% of each
    participant s total eligible compensation. The total
    expense related to the defined contribution plan for
    U.S. employees was $23.3 million in fiscal 2006,
    $22.8 million in fiscal 2005 and $22.1 million in
    fiscal 2004. The Company also has various defined benefit
    pension and other retirement plans for certain
     non-U.S. employees 
    that are consistent with local statutory requirements and
    practices. The total expense related to the various defined
    benefit pension and other retirement plans for certain
     non-U.S. employees 
    was $16.6 million in fiscal 2006, $12.8 million in
    fiscal 2005 and $10.2 million in fiscal 2004.

Non-U.S. Plan 
    Disclosures  

The Company s funding policy for its foreign defined
    benefit pension plans is consistent with the local requirements
    of each country. The plans  assets consist primarily of
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. equity 
    securities, bonds, property and cash. The benefit obligations
    and related assets under these plans have been measured at
    September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005.

Net annual periodic pension cost of
     non-U.S. plans 
    is presented in the following table:

The special termination presented relate to certain early
    retirement benefits provided in certain jurisdictions.

74

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Obligation and asset data of the Company s
     non-U.S. plans 
    at each fiscal year end is presented in the following table:

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit
    obligation, and fair value of plan assets for
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan
    assets were $49.6 million, $41.9 million, and

75

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

$24.2 million respectively, at September 30, 2006 and
    $45.7 million, $38.4 million, and $16.6 million
    respectively, at September 30, 2005.

The range of assumptions used for the
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit plans reflects the different economic environments
    within the various countries. The projected benefit obligation
    was determined using the following weighted average assumptions:

The expected long-term rate of return on assets is a weighted
    average of the long-term rates of return selected for the
    various countries where the Company has funded pension plans.
    The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption is
    selected based on the facts and circumstances that exist as of
    the measurement date, and the specific portfolio mix of plan
    assets. Management, in conjunction with its actuaries, reviewed
    anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset
    categories and considered the asset allocation strategy adopted
    by the Company and or the trustees of the plans. While the
    review considered recent fund performance and historical
    returns, the assumption is primarily a long-term, prospective
    rate.

Expected fiscal 2007 Company contributions and estimated future
    benefit payments are as follows:

The Company s year-end pension plan weighted average asset
    allocations by category were:

The fundamental goal underlying the pension plans 
    investment policy is to achieve a total rate of return that
    exceeds inflation over the long-term by using a certain mix of
    assets depending on the profile of the specific plan. Investment
    practices must comply with applicable laws and regulations.

The Company s investment strategy is based on an
    expectation that equity securities will outperform debt
    securities over the long term. Accordingly, in order to maximize
    the return on assets, a majority of assets are invested in
    equities. Investments within each asset class are diversified to
    reduce the impact of losses in single investments. The use of
    derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and
    necessary to achieve overall investment policy objectives and
    asset class targets.

76

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Company establishes strategic asset allocation percentage
    targets and appropriate benchmarks for each significant asset
    class to obtain a prudent balance between return and risk. The
    interaction between plan assets and benefit obligations is
    periodically studied by the Company and its actuaries to assist
    in the establishment of strategic asset allocation targets.

The reconciliation of income tax computed at the
    U.S. federal statutory rates to income tax expense is as
    follows:

For financial reporting purposes, income before income taxes
    includes the following components:

The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

77

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

On October 22, 2004, the U.S. enacted the American
    Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( AJCA ). The AJCA created a
    temporary incentive for U.S. multinational corporations to
    repatriate accumulated foreign income by providing an 85%
    dividends received deduction for certain dividends from
    controlled foreign corporations. The Company decided to
    repatriate $1,055 million in extraordinary dividends, as
    defined by the AJCA, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005
    and accordingly recorded a tax liability of $48.7 million
    at October 29, 2005.

The Company continues to intend to reinvest certain of its
    foreign earnings indefinitely. Accordingly, no US income taxes
    have been provided for approximately $946 million of
    unremitted earnings of international subsidiaries. As of
    October 28, 2006, the amount of unrecognized deferred tax
    liability on these earnings was $258 million.

The significant components of the Company s deferred tax
    assets and liabilities for the fiscal years ended
    October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005 are as follows:

The valuation allowances of $42.6 million and
    $42.2 million at October 28, 2006 and October 29,
    2005, are a full valuation allowance for the Company s
    state credit carryovers that will begin to expire in 2007.

The Company has provided for potential liabilities due in
    various jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining the
    worldwide income tax expense provision. In the ordinary course
    of global business, there are many transactions and calculations
    where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these
    uncertainties arise as a consequence of cost reimbursement
    arrangements among related entities. Although the Company
    believes its estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given
    that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be
    different than that which is reflected in the historical income
    tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a
    material impact on the Company s income tax provision and
    operating results in the period in which such determination is
    made.

The United States Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) has
    completed its examination of fiscal years 2001, 2002 and 2003
    and issued their report. The Company has agreed to accept this
    report and will file its 2006 tax return and

78

Table of Contents   

has filed its 2005 tax return and an amended return for 2004
    conforming to the methodologies agreed to during the
     2001-2003 
    examination. The completion of this examination, including the
    reversal of accruals for taxes and penalties and the filing of
    refund claims in other jurisdictions associated with the
    completion of the IRS examination, resulted in an income tax
    benefit of $35.2 million in fiscal year 2006.

The Company s income tax payable decreased by
    $111 million during fiscal year 2006, which was primarily
    the result of tax deductions for stock options exercised over a
    period of several years becoming available for utilization upon
    completion of the IRS examination.

The Company s income tax payable at October 28, 2006
    was approximately $61 million, which included approximately
    $56 million for current U.S. federal, state and
    foreign tax filings. The remaining $5 million of income tax
    payable is for various other income taxes.

During fiscal year 2006, the IRS invited the Company to
    participate in the Compliance Assurance Process (CAP) which is a
    voluntary pilot program the IRS is conducting for a limited
    number of large business taxpayers. The objective of CAP is to
    reduce taxpayer burden associated with IRS audits while assuring
    the IRS of the accuracy of tax returns prior to filing. The
    Company has agreed to participate in CAP. Under the program, the
    IRS will contemporaneously work with the Company to achieve
    federal tax compliance and resolve issues prior to the filing of
    a tax return. CAP is designed to eliminate or substantially
    reduce the need for post-filing examinations of future tax
    returns. The audit of fiscal years 2004 and 2005 is currently
    underway.

16.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

One of the Company s directors, who has served on the
    Company s Board of Directors since 1988, became a director
    of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, in
    fiscal 2002 and continues to serve as a director of TSMC.
    Management believes the terms and prices for the purchases of
    products from TSMC are not affected by the presence of one of
    the Company s directors on the Board of Directors of TSMC.
    The Company purchased approximately $281 million,
    $224 million and $337 million of product from TSMC in
    fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and
    approximately $17 million and $27 million was payable
    to TSMC as of October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005,
    respectively. Management anticipates that the Company will make
    significant purchases from TSMC in fiscal year 2007.

17.    

Gain on
    Sale of Product Line  

During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, on February 21,
    2006, the Company completed the sale to Ikanos Communications,
    Inc. of its DSP-based digital subscriber line (DSL)
    application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) and network
    processor product line. The Company received approximately
    $23.1 million in cash for the product line and after
    providing for the write-off of inventory, fixed assets and other
    costs incurred to complete the transaction, recorded a net gain
    of approximately $13.0 million in nonoperating income
    during the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

On November 13, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company
    declared a cash dividend of $0.16 per outstanding share of
    common stock. The dividend will be paid on December 13,
    2006 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on
    November 24, 2006.

On November 8, 2006, the Company became entitled to
    $35 million of consideration in exchange for licensing of
    certain intellectual property rights to a third party. On
    November 9, 2006, the Company received the payment from the
    third party. The Company will record this as revenue in the
    first quarter of fiscal 2007.

79

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Analog Devices, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Analog Devices, Inc. as of October 28, 2006 and
    October 29, 2005, and the related consolidated statements
    of income, shareholders  equity, comprehensive income, and
    cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    October 28, 2006. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(c). These
    financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
    Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
    audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Analog Devices, Inc. at October 28,
    2006 and October 29, 2005, and the consolidated results of
    its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended October 28, 2006, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
    opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
    considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
    as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
    information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Analog Devices, Inc. s internal control
    over financial reporting as of October 28, 2006, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated November 16, 2006
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective October 30, 2005, the Company adopted
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment. 

Boston, Massachusetts

November 16, 2006

80

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

SUPPLEMENTARY
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

(Unaudited)  

Quarterly financial information for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005
    (thousands, except per share amounts and as noted):

81

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.    

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.    

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

(a)  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
    Procedures.   Our management, with the
    participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of Analog s disclosure
    controls and procedures as of October 28, 2006. The term
     disclosure controls and procedures,  as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a
    company that are designed to ensure that information required to
    be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or
    submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in
    the SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and
    procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures
    designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
    a company in the reports that it files or submits under the
    Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
    company s management, including its principal executive and
    principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes
    that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
    and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving
    their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment
    in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
    and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure
    controls and procedures as of October 28, 2006, our Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as
    of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were
    effective at the reasonable assurance level.

(b)  Management s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. 

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
    control over financial reporting is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    or  15d-15(f) 
    promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers and effected by the company s board of directors,
    management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
    includes those policies and procedures that:

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
    accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
    of the assets of the company;

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
    only in accordance with authorizations of management and
    directors of the company; and

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting as of October 28, 2006. In
    making this assessment, the company s management used the
    criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
    of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated
    Framework.

Based on this assessment, our management concluded that, as of
    October 28, 2006, our internal control over financial
    reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Our independent auditors have issued an audit report on our
    assessment of our internal control over financial reporting.
    This report appears below.

82

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Analog Devices, Inc.

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting, that Analog Devices, Inc. maintained
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    October 28, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
    of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
    criteria). Analog Devices, Inc. s management is responsible
    for maintaining effective internal control over financial
    reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is
    to express an opinion on management s assessment and an
    opinion on the effectiveness of the company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Analog
    Devices, Inc. maintained effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of October 28, 2006, is fairly
    stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria.
    Also, in our opinion, Analog Devices, Inc. maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of October 28, 2006, based on the COSO
    criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Analog Devices, Inc. as of
    October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005, and the related
    consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity,
    comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years
    in the period ended October 28, 2006 of Analog Devices,
    Inc. and our report dated November 16, 2006 expressed an
    unqualified opinion thereon.

Boston, Massachusetts

November 16, 2006

83

Table of Contents   

(c)  Changes in Internal Controls.   No
    change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal
    quarter ended October 28, 2006 that has materially
    affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
    internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.    

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

84

Table of Contents   

PART III  

ITEM 10.    

DIRECTORS
    AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Information required by this item relating to our directors and
    nominees is contained in our 2007 proxy statement under the
    caption  Proposal 1   Election of
    Directors  and is incorporated herein by reference.
    Information required by this item relating to our executive
    officers is contained under the caption  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
    OF THE COMPANY  in Part I of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by
    this item pursuant to Items 401(h) and (i) of
     Regulation S-K 
    relating to an audit committee financial expert and
    identification of the audit committee of our Board of Directors
    is contained in our 2007 proxy statement under the caption
     Corporate Governance   Board of Directors
    Meetings and Committees   Audit Committee  and is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information required by this
    item relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is contained in our 2007 proxy
    statement under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial
    Ownership Reporting Compliance  and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

We have adopted a written code of business conduct and ethics
    that applies to our principal executive officer, principal
    financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller,
    or persons performing similar functions. We intend to satisfy
    any disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of
    business conduct and ethics by posting such information on our
    website which is located at www.analog.com.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we made no material
    change to the procedures by which shareholders may recommend
    nominees to our Board of Directors, as described in our 2006
    proxy statement.

ITEM 11.    

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

Information required by this item is contained in our 2007 proxy
    statement under the captions  Corporate
    Governance   Directors  Compensation  and
     Information About Executive Compensation  and is
    incorporated herein by reference, provided that the sections
    entitled  Report of the Compensation Committee  and
     Comparative Stock Performance Graph  in our 2007
    proxy statement are not incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.    

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

Information required by this item relating to security ownership
    of certain beneficial owners and management is contained in our
    2007 proxy statement under the caption  Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information required by this
    item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity
    compensation plans is contained in our 2007 proxy statement
    under the caption  Information About Executive
    Compensation   Securities Authorized for Issuance
    Under Equity Compensation Plans  and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

ITEM 13.    

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

Information required by this item is contained in our 2007 proxy
    statement under the caption  Corporate
    Governance   Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.    

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

Information required by this item is contained in our 2007 proxy
    statement under the caption  Corporate
    Governance   Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm Fees and Other Matters  and is incorporated herein by
    reference.

85

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

ITEM 15.    

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a)     

The
    following are filed as part of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

1.    

Financial
    Statements  

The following consolidated financial statements are included in
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

(b)    

Exhibits  

The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately
    preceding the exhibits are filed with or incorporated by
    reference in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(c)    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

The following consolidated financial statement schedule is
    included in Item 15(c) of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules have been omitted since the required
    information is not present, or not present in amounts sufficient
    to require submission of the schedule, or because the
    information required is included in the consolidated financial
    statements or the Notes thereto.

86

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC.  

ANNUAL REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K  

YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 2006 

ITEM 15(c) 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 

87

Table of Contents   

ANALOG
    DEVICES, INC. 

SCHEDULE II  
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

Years
    ended October 28, 2006, October 29, 2005 and
    October 30, 2004 

(Thousands)   

88

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: 

/s/   JERALD
    G. FISHMAN 

Jerald G. Fishman

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

(Principal Executive Officer)

Date: November 20, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act
    of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
    persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
    the dates indicated.

Name 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Ray
    Stata  

Ray
    Stata

Chairman of the Board

November 20, 2006

/s/   Jerald
    G. Fishman  

Jerald
    G. Fishman

President, 
    Chief Executive Officer 
    and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

November 20, 2006

/s/   Joseph
    E.
    McDonough  

Joseph
    E. McDonough

Vice President-Finance 
    and Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

November 20, 2006

/s/   James
    A. Champy  

James
    A. Champy

Director

November 20, 2006

/s/   John
    L. Doyle  

John
    L. Doyle

Director

November 20, 2006

/s/   John
    C. Hodgson  

John
    C. Hodgson

Director

November 20, 2006

/s/   Christine
    King  

Christine
    King

Director

November 20, 2006

/s/   F.
    Grant
    Saviers  

F.
    Grant Saviers

Director

November 20, 2006

/s/   Paul
    J. Severino  

Paul
    J. Severino

Director

November 20, 2006

89

Table of Contents   

90

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Index  

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

3

.1

Restated Articles of Organization
    of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    for the quarterly period ended May 1, 2004 as filed with
    the Commission on May 18, 2004 and incorporated herein by
    reference.

3

.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of
    Analog Devices, Inc., filed as an exhibit to the Company s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    (File
     No. 1-7819), 
    as filed with the Commission on December 13, 2004 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.1

Analog Devices, Inc. Amended and
    Restated Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    for the quarterly period ended January 28, 2006 as filed
    with the Commission on February 15, 2006 and incorporated
    herein by reference.

*10

.2

Trust Agreement for Deferred
    Compensation Plan dated as of October 1, 2003 between
    Analog Devices, Inc. and Fidelity Management Trust Company filed
    as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 1, 2003 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on December 23, 2003 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

* 10

.3

First Amendment to
    Trust Agreement for Deferred Compensation Plan between
    Analog Devices, Inc. and Fidelity Management Trust Company dated
    as of January 1, 2005.

*10

.4

Restated 1988 Stock Option Plan of
    Analog Devices, Inc., filed as an exhibit to the Company s
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the fiscal quarter ended May 3, 1997 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on June 17, 1997 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.5

1994 Director Option Plan of
    Analog Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 2, 2002 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 29, 2003 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.6

1998 Stock Option Plan of Analog
    Devices Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 2, 2002 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 29, 2003 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.7

Analog Devices, Inc. 2001
    Broad-Based Stock Option Plan, as amended, filed as an exhibit
    to the Company s
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 2, 2002 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 29, 2003 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.8

2006 Stock Incentive Plan of
    Analog Devices, Inc., incorporated herein by reference to
    Appendix A of the Company s Definitive Proxy Statement
    on Schedule 14A filed with the Commission on
    February 8, 2006 (File
     No. 1-7819). 

* 10

.9

Amendment No. 1 to 2006 Stock
    Incentive Plan of Analog Devices, Inc..

*10

.10

Form of Confirming Memorandum for
    Grants of Non-Qualified Stock Options to Employees for usage
    under the Registrant s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as
    an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    (File
     No. 1-7819), 
    as filed with the Commission on September 25, 2006 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.11

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement
    for usage under the Registrant s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan,
    filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    (File
     No. 1-7819), 
    as filed with the Commission on September 25, 2006 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.12

Form of Restricted Stock Unit
    Confirming Memorandum for usage under the Registrant s 2006
    Stock Incentive Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    (File
     No. 1-7819), 
    as filed with the Commission on September 25, 2006 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.13

Analog Devices BV (Ireland)
    Employee Stock Option Program, as amended, filed as an exhibit
    to the Company s
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 2, 2002 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 29, 2003 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.14

BCO Technologies plc Unapproved
    Share Option Scheme, filed as an exhibit to the Company s
    Registration Statement on
     Form S-8 
    (File
     No. 333-50092) 
    as filed with the Commission on November 16, 2000 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.15

BCO Technologies plc Approved
    Share Option Scheme, filed as an exhibit to the Company s
    Registration Statement on
     Form S-8 
    (File
     No. 333-50092) 
    as filed with the Commission on November 16, 2000 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.16

ChipLogic, Inc. Amended and
    Restated 1998 Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Registration Statement on
     Form S-8 
    (File
     No. 333-53314) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 5, 2001 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

10

.17

Staccato Systems, Inc. 1998 Stock
    Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration
    Statement on
     Form S-8 
    (File
     No. 333-53828) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 17, 2001 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.18

Various individual stock
    restriction and similar agreements between the registrant and
    employees thereof relating to ChipLogic, Inc., filed as an
    exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on
     Form S-8 
    (File
     No. 333-57444) 
    as filed with the Commission on March 22, 2001, as amended
    by Amendment No. 1 filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Post-Effective Amendment to Registration
    Statement on
     Form S-8 
    (File
     No. 333-57444) 
    as filed with the Commission on March 23, 2001 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.19

Employment Agreement dated
    November 14, 2005 between Jerald G. Fishman and Analog
    Devices, Inc., filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on November 15, 2005 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.20

Letter Agreement between Analog
    Devices Inc. and Jerald G. Fishman dated June 21, 2000
    relating to acceleration of stock options upon the occurrence of
    certain events, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2000 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 26, 2001 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.21

Description of Executive
    Performance Bonus Plan for fiscal year 2006, incorporated herein
    by reference to Item 1.01 in the Company s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    filed January 25, 2006.

*10

.22

Form of Employee Retention
    Agreement, as amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company s
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 1, 1997 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 1998 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.23

Employee Change in Control
    Severance Policy of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as
    an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1999 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 2000 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

*10

.24

Senior Management Change in
    Control Severance Policy of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended,
    filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1999 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 2000 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.25

Amended and Restated Lease
    Agreement dated May 1, 1992 between Analog Devices, Inc.
    and the trustees of Everett Street Trust relating to the
    premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts, filed as
    an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 1, 1997 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 1998 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.26

Guaranty dated as of May 1,
    1994 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Metropolitan Life
    Insurance Company relating to the premises at 3 Technology Way,
    Norwood, Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1999 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 2000 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.27

Letter Agreement dated as of
    May 18, 1994 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company relating to the premises at 3 Technology
    Way, Norwood, Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1999 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 2000 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.28

Reimbursement Agreement dated
    May 18, 1992 between Analog Devices, Inc. and the trustees
    of Everett Street Trust, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 1, 1997 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 1998 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

10

.29

Lease Agreement dated
    August 8, 1990 between Precision Monolithics, Inc. and
    Bourns, Inc. relating to the premises at 1525 Comstock Road,
    Santa Clara, California, filed as an exhibit to the
    Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2001 (File
     No. 1-7819) 
    as filed with the Commission on January 28, 2002 and
    incorporated herein by reference.

Table of Contents   

Filed herewith. 

*  

Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements
    required to be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 15(b)
    of
     Form 10-K.  

<EX-10.3>
 2
 b63086adexv10w3.txt
 EX-10.3 FIRST AMEND. TO TRUST AGREEMENT FOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

EXHIBIT 10.3

                   FIRST AMENDMENT TO TRUST AGREEMENT BETWEEN
                      FIDELITY MANAGEMENT TRUST COMPANY AND
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

     THIS FIRST AMENDMENT, dated and effective as of the first day of January,
2005, by and between Fidelity Management Trust Company (the "Trustee") and
Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Sponsor");

                                   WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, the Trustee and the Sponsor heretofore entered into a Trust
Agreement dated October 1, 2003 with regard to the Analog Devices, Inc. Deferred
Compensation Plan (the "Plan"); and

     WHEREAS, the Trustee and the Sponsor now desire to amend said Trust
Agreement as provided for in Section 14 thereof;

     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the above premises, the Trustee and the
Sponsor hereby amend the Trust Agreement by:

     (1)  Deleting the seventh "Whereas" clause, which reads as follows:

               WHEREAS, the Sponsor (the "Administrator") is the administrator
          of the Plan; and

     (2)  Amending and restating the eighth "Whereas" clause to read as follows:

               WHEREAS, the Trustee is willing to perform recordkeeping and
          administrative services for the Plan if the services are purely
          ministerial in nature and are provided within a framework of plan
          provisions, guidelines and interpretations conveyed in writing to the
          Trustee by the Administrator, as hereinafter defined.

     (3)  Amending and restating paragraph 1(a) to read as follows:

               (a) "Administrator" shall mean the Sponsor.

     (4)  Replacing the term "Named Fiduciary" in the fourth sentence of Section
          5(d) with "Sponsor".

     (5)  Restating the definition of "Change in Control" in Section 16(a), in
          its entirety, as follows:

               (a) Definition. A "Change in Control" means a Change in Control
          Event as defined in the Plan document, which is intended to be
          consistent with Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, as modified
          from time to time.

     Other than the revisions stated above, the remaining provisions of the
Agreement remain in full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trustee and the Sponsor have caused this First
Amendment to be executed by their duly authorized officers effective as of the
day and year first above written.

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.                    FIDELITY MANAGEMENT TRUST COMPANY

By: /s/ Joseph E. McDonough             By: /s/ illegible
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
    Joseph E. McDonough Date 2/28/05        Its Authorized Signatory Date 3/7/05
    V.P., Finance & CFO

2

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.9>
 3
 b63086adexv10w9.txt
 EX-10.9 AMEND. NO.1 TO 2006 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

EXHIBIT 10.9

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE 2006 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

      The Analog Devices, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, pursuant to Section
13(d) thereof, is hereby amended as follows:

      VOTED: That, the Corporation hereby adopts and approves an amendment to
the Corporation's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan in substantially the form attached
hereto as Exhibit E (such amendment referred to as "Amended Appendix A -
Israel") to permit the Corporation's Israeli employees (specifically, employees,
advisors and consultants of Analog Devices (Israel) Ltd. and Analog Development
(Israel) 1999 Ltd.) to qualify for certain tax benefits under the tax laws of
the country of Israel; and further that the CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, THE PRESIDENT
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER, AND THE TREASURER OF THE CORPORATION, each of them acting singly, are
hereby authorized and empowered to execute any document necessary or proper to
give effect to "Amended Appendix A - Israel" under the laws and regulations of
the country of Israel; and further, the aforementioned officers be, and each
acting singly hereby is, authorized in the name and on behalf of the Corporation
to sign, acknowledge, swear to and deliver any affidavit, agreement or other
documents, each in such form as the authorized person or persons executing the
same shall determine to be in the best interest of the Corporation to give
proper effect to such "Amended Appendix A - Israel", the execution of any such
documents to be sufficient evidence of such determination; and that the
Secretary of the Corporation be authorized to attest, co-sign and affix the
Corporate seal to such documents.

      Approved by the Board of Directors on March 14, 2006.

ANALOG DEVICES INC.

                           AMENDED APPENDIX A - ISRAEL

                        TO THE 2006 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

A.    1. GENERAL

1.1.  This appendix (the "APPENDIX") shall apply only to optionees who are
      employees/advisors/consultants of one of the two following companies,
      Analog Devices (Israel) Ltd., Analog Development (Israel) 1996 Ltd, and
      are residents of the state of Israel for the payment of tax. The
      provisions specified hereunder shall form an integral part of the 2006
      Stock Incentive Plan of Analog Devices Inc. (hereinafter: the "PLAN"),
      which applies to the issuance of options to purchase Common Stock of
      Analog Devices Inc. (hereinafter: the "COMPANY"). According to the Plan,
      options to purchase the Company's Common Stock may be issued to employees,
      directors and consultants and advisors of the Company or its Affiliates

1.2   This Appendix is effective with respect to Options granted as of March 14,
      2006 and shall comply with Amendment no. 132 of the Israeli Tax Ordinance.

1.3.  This Appendix is to be read as a continuation of the Plan and only
      modifies Options granted to Israeli optionees so that they comply with the
      requirements set by the Israeli law in general, and in particular with the
      provisions of Section 102 (as specified herein), as may be amended or
      replaced from time to time. For the avoidance of doubt, this Appendix does
      not add to or modify the Plan in respect of any other category of
      optionees.

1.4.  The Plan and this Appendix are complimentary to each other and shall be
      deemed as one. In any case of contradiction, whether explicit or implied,
      between the provisions of this Appendix and the Plan, the provisions set
      out in the Appendix shall prevail.

1.5.  Any capitalized terms not specifically defined in this Appendix shall be
      construed according to the interpretation given to it in the Plan.

B.    2. DEFINITIONS

2.1   "AFFILIATE" means any "employing company" within the meaning of Section
      102(a) of the Ordinance.

2.2   "APPROVED 102 OPTION" means an Option granted pursuant to Section 102(b)
      of the Ordinance and held in trust by a Trustee for the benefit of the
      optionee.

2.3   "CAPITAL GAIN OPTION (CGO)" means an Approved 102 Option elected and
      designated by the Company to qualify under the capital gain tax treatment
      in accordance with the provisions of Section 102(b)(2) of the Ordinance.

2.4   "CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section
      32(9) of the Ordinance.

2.5   "EMPLOYEE" means a person who is employed by the Company or its
      Affiliates, including an individual who is serving as a director or an
      office holder, but excluding any Controlling Shareholder.

2.6   "ITA" means the Israeli Tax Authorities.

2.7   "NON-EMPLOYEE" means a consultant, adviser, service provider, Controlling
      Shareholder or any other person who is not an Employee.

2.8   "ORDINARY INCOME OPTION (OIO)" means an Approved 102 Option elected and
      designated by the Company to qualify under the ordinary income tax
      treatment in accordance with the provisions of Section 102(b)(1) of the
      Ordinance.

2.9   "OPTION" means an option to purchase one or more Common Stock of the
      Company pursuant to the Plan.

2.10  "102 OPTION" means any Option granted to Employees pursuant to Section 102
      of the Ordinance.

2.11  "3(i) OPTION" means an Option granted pursuant to Section 3(i) of the
      Ordinance to any person who is a Non- Employee.

2.12  "OPTION AGREEMENT" means the share option agreement between the Company
      and a optionee that sets out the terms and conditions of an Option.

2.13  "ORDINANCE" means the 1961 Israeli Income Tax Ordinance [New Version] 1961
      as now in effect or as hereafter amended.

2.14  "SECTION 102" means section 102 of the Ordinance and any regulations,
      rules, orders or procedures promulgated there under as now in effect or as
      hereafter amended.

2.15  "TRUSTEE" means any individual or entity appointed by the Company to serve
      as a trustee and approved by the ITA, all in accordance with the
      provisions of Section 102(a) of the Ordinance.

2.16  "UNAPPROVED 102 OPTION" means an Option granted pursuant to Section 102(c)
      of the Ordinance and not held in trust by a Trustee.

C.    3. ISSUANCE OF OPTIONS

3.1   The persons eligible for participation in the Plan as optionees shall
      include any Employees and/or Non-Employees of the Company or of any
      Affiliate; provided, however, that (i) Employees may only be granted 102
      Options; and (ii) Non-Employees and/or Controlling Shareholders may only
      be granted 3(i) Options

3.2   The Company may designate Options granted to Employees pursuant to Section
      102 as Unapproved 102 Options or Approved 102 Options.

3.3   The grant of Approved 102 Options shall be made under this Appendix
      adopted by the Board, and shall be conditioned upon the approval of this
      Appendix by the ITA.

3.4   Approved 102 Options may either be classified as Capital Gain Options
      ("CGOs") or Ordinary Income Options ("OIOs").

3.5   No Approved 102 Options may be granted under this Appendix to any eligible
      Employee, unless and until, the Company's election of the type of Approved
      102 Options as CGI or OIO granted to Employees (the "ELECTION"), is
      appropriately filed with the ITA. Such Election shall become effective
      beginning the first Grant Date of an Approved 102 Option under this
      Appendix and shall remain in effect until the end of the year following
      the year during which the Company first granted Approved 102 Options. The
      Election shall obligate the Company to grant only the type of Approved 102
      Option it has elected, and shall apply to all optionees who were granted
      Approved 102 Options during the period indicated herein, all in accordance
      with the provisions of Section 102(g) of the Ordinance. For the avoidance
      of doubt, such Election shall not prevent the Company from granting
      Unapproved 102 Options simultaneously.

3.6   All Approved 102 Options must be held in trust by a Trustee, as described
      in Section 4_below.

3.7   For the avoidance of doubt, the designation of Unapproved 102 Options and
      Approved 102 Options shall be subject to the terms and conditions set
      forth in Section 102.

D.    4. TRUSTEE

4.1   Approved 102 Options which shall be granted under this Appendix and/or any
      Common Stock allocated or issued upon exercise of such Approved 102
      Options and/or other shares received subsequently following any
      realization of rights, including bonus shares, shall be allocated or
      issued to the Trustee and held for the benefit of the optionees for such
      period of time as required by Section 102 or any regulations, rules or
      orders or procedures promulgated there under (the "Holding Period"). In
      the case the requirements for Approved 102 Options are not met, then the
      Approved 102 Options shall be regarded as Unapproved 102 Options, all in
      accordance with the provisions of Section 102.

4.2   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Trustee shall not release
      any Common Stock allocated or issued upon exercise of Approved 102 Options
      prior to the full payment of the optionee 's tax liabilities arising from
      Approved 102 Options which were granted to him and/or any Common Stock
      allocated or issued upon exercise of such Options.

      4.3 Upon receipt of Approved 102 Option, the optionee will sign an
      undertaking to release the Trustee from any liability in respect of any
      action or decision duly taken and bona fide executed in relation with this
      Appendix, or any Approved 102 Option or Ordinary Share granted to him
      there under.

      4.4 With respect to any Approved 102 Option, subject to the provisions of
      Section 102 and any rules or regulation or orders or procedures
      promulgated thereunder, an Optionee shall not sell or release from trust
      any Share received upon the exercise of an Approved 102 Option and/or any
      share received subsequently following any realization of rights, including
      without limitation, bonus shares, until the lapse of the Holding Period
      required under Section 102 of the Ordinance. Notwithstanding the above, if
      any such sale or release occurs during the Holding Period, the sanctions
      under Section 102 of the Ordinance and under any rules or regulation or
      orders or procedures promulgated thereunder shall apply to and shall be
      borne by such Optionee.

E.    5. THE OPTIONS

The terms and conditions upon which the Options shall be issued and exercised,
shall be as specified in the Option Agreement to be executed pursuant to the
Plan and to this Appendix. Each Option Agreement shall state, inter alia, the
number of Common Stock to which the Option relates, the vesting provisions and
the exercise price.

6.    OPTION EXERCISE PRICE

Solely for the purpose of determining the tax liability pursuant to Section
102(b)(3) of the Ordinance, if at the date of grant the Company's shares are
listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system or if the
Company's shares will be registered for trading

within ninety (90) days following the date of grant of the CGOs, the option
exercise price of the Common Stock at the date of grant shall be determined in
accordance with the average value of the Company's New York Stock Exchange
closing share price on the thirty (30) trading days preceding the date of grant
or on the thirty (30) trading days following the date of registration for
trading, as the case may be. In no case, however, shall the option exercise
price be less than the closing share price of the Company's stock on the date of
grant.

F.    7. EXERCISE OF OPTIONS

      1. Options shall be exercised by the optionee by giving notice to the
Company and/or to any third party designated by the Company (the
"REPRESENTATIVE"), in such form and method as may be determined by the Company
and, when applicable, by the Trustee, in accordance with the requirements of
Section 102, which exercise shall be effective upon receipt of such notice by
the Company and/or the Representative and the payment of the exercise price for
the number of Common Stock with respect to which the option is being exercised,
at the Company's or the Representative's principal office. The notice shall
specify the number of Common Stock with respect to which the option is being
exercised.

G.    8. ASSIGNABILITY AND SALE OF OPTIONS

8.1.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Option or any right
      with respect thereto, purchasable hereunder, whether fully paid or not,
      shall be assignable, transferable or given as collateral or any right with
      respect to them given to any third party whatsoever, and during the
      lifetime of the optionee each and all of such optionee's rights to
      purchase Common Stock hereunder shall be exercisable only by the optionee.

      Any such action made directly or indirectly, for an immediate validation
      or for a future one, shall be void.

8.2   As long as Options or Common Stock purchased pursuant to thereto are held
      by the Trustee on behalf of the optionee, all rights of the optionee over
      the shares are personal, can not be transferred, assigned, pledged or
      mortgaged, other than by will or laws of descent and distribution.

H.    9. INTEGRATION OF SECTION 102 AND TAX ASSESSING OFFICER'S PERMIT

9.1.  With regards to Approved 102 Options, the provisions of the Plan and/or
      the Appendix and/or the Option Agreement shall be subject to the
      provisions of Section 102 and the Tax Assessing Officer's permit, and the
      said provisions and permit shall be deemed an integral part of the Plan
      and of the Appendix and of the Option Agreement.

9.2.  Any provision of Section 102 and/or the said permit which is necessary in
      order to receive and/or to keep any tax benefit pursuant to Section 102,
      which is not expressly specified in the Plan or the Appendix or the Option
      Agreement, shall be considered binding upon the Company and the optionees.

I.    10. DIVIDEND

      With respect to all Shares (but excluding, for avoidance of any doubt, any
      unexercised Options) allocated or issued upon the exercise of Options
      purchased by the Optionee and held by the Optionee or by the Trustee, as
      the case may be, the Optionee shall be entitled to receive dividends in
      accordance with the quantity of such Shares, subject to the provisions of
      the Company's Incorporation Documents (and all amendments thereto) and
      subject to any applicable taxation on distribution of dividends, and when
      applicable subject to the provisions of Section 102 and the rules,
      regulations or orders promulgated thereunder.

J.    11. TAX CONSEQUENCES

11.1  Any tax consequences arising from the grant or exercise of any Option,
      from the payment for Common Stock covered thereby or from any other event
      or act (of the Company, and/or its Affiliates, and the Trustee or the
      optionee), hereunder, shall be borne solely by the optionee. The Company
      and/or its Affiliates, and/or the Trustee shall withhold taxes according
      to the requirements under the applicable laws, rules, and regulations,
      including withholding taxes at source. Furthermore, the optionee shall
      agree to indemnify the Company and/or its Affiliates and/or the Trustee
      and hold them harmless against and from any and all liability for any such
      tax or interest or penalty thereon, including without limitation,
      liabilities relating to the necessity to withhold, or to have withheld,
      any such tax from any payment made to the optionee.

11.2  The Company and/or, when applicable, the Trustee shall not be required to
      release any share certificate to an optionee until all required payments
      have been fully made.

                                      * * *

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.35>
 4
 b63086adexv10w35.txt
 EX-10.35 FIRST AMEND. DATED DECEMBER 13, 1996 TO LEASE AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.35

     AMENDMENT # 1 TO THE LEASE BETWEEN ANALOG DEVICES, INC. ("LESSEE") AND
     MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ("LESSOR") DATED FEBRUARY 8, 1996

WHEREAS, Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog") and Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ("MIT") entered into a lease agreement (the "Lease") dated February
8, 1996 for the premises, as defined in Section 1.1 of the Lease, at 21 Osborn
Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts; and

WHEREAS, Analog and MIT wish to amend the Lease.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Lease is hereby amended by replacing the second sentence of
Section 1.3 with the following sentence, effective as of December 13, 1996:

     "This option may be exercised by the Lessee by notice thereof to Lessor,
     dispatched not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date on which Lessee
     will take occupancy of the additional space, and upon the exercise of this
     option, the Premises shall include such space."

Executed as of the 13th day of December, 1996.

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.                    MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

By:                                     By:
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
Name:                                   Name:
      -------------------------------         ----------------------------------
Title:                                  Title:
       ------------------------------          ---------------------------------

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.36>
 5
 b63086adexv10w36.txt
 EX-10.36 SECOND AMEND. DATED DECEMBER 20, 1996 TO LEASE AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.36

                            SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE

     Agreement made as of the 20th day of December 1996 between MASSACHUSETTS
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ("Lessor") and ANALOG DEVICES, INC. ("Lessee").

     WHEREAS: Lessor is the lessor and Lessee the lessee under a lease agreement
(the "Lease") dated February 8, 1995 with respect to the basement, first and
second floors of the building at 21 Osborn Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts (the
"Building");

     WHEREAS: Lessee holds an option ("Expansion Option") to expand the leased
premises (the "Premises") under the Lease to include the third and fourth floors
of the Building on terms set forth in the Lease;

     WHEREAS: Lessee desires to exercise the Expansion Option with respect to
both the third and fourth floors but on terms and conditions different from
those set forth in the Lease; and

     WHEREAS: Lessor has agreed to modify the Lease as set forth below:

NOW THEREFORE: the parties agree as follows:

     1. Lessee has effectively exercised its Expansion Option to lease the third
and fourth floors of the Building on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Lease as amended hereby.

     2. Lessee shall be entitled to take possession of the third floor of the
Building on January 7, 1997 and shall be entitled to take possession of the
fourth floor of the Building on June 1, 1998.

     3. Commencing February 13, 1997, Lessee shall pay all Taxes for the
Building and the Land.

     4. Lessee shall commence payment of Basic Rent for the third floor of the
Building commencing July 1, 1997 and shall commence payment of Basic Rent for
the fourth floor of the Building commencing December 1, 1998.

     5. Notwithstanding Section 1.3 of the Lease or anything to the contrary set
forth in the Lease, except for Lessee's assumption of the responsibility to pay
real estate taxes as set forth in paragraph 3 above, the Premises shall not
include the fourth floor of the Building until June 1, 1998. Prior to that date,
Lessee shall not have the right of access to the fourth floor except as
expressly authorized from time to time by Lessor.

     6. Except as set forth herein, the terms of the Lease are hereby confirmed
to be in full force and effect.

1

Executed as a sealed instrument as of the date first above written.

                                        MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

By: /s/ Philip A. Trussell
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Philip A. Trussell, its
                                            Director of Real Estate
                                            and Assistant Treasurer

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            William A. Martin
                                            Treasurer

</EX-10.36>

<EX-10.37>
 6
 b63086adexv10w37.txt
 EX-10.37 THIRD AMEND. DATED MAY 27, 1997 TO LEASE AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.37

                            THIRD AMENDMENT TO LEASE

     Agreement made as of the 27th day of May, 1997 between MASSACHUSETTS
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ("Lessor") and ANALOG DEVICES, INC. ("Lessee").

     WHEREAS: Lessor is the lessor and Lessee the lessee under a lease agreement
(the "Lease") dated February 8, 1995 with respect to the building at 21 Osborn
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts (the "Building") as previously amended;

     WHEREAS: Lessee expanded the Leased Premises to include the third and
fourth floors of the Building by its exercise of an expansion option on terms
set forth in the Lease as modified by prior amendments which enabled the Lessee
to defer taking possession of the fourth floor until June 1, 1998 and to defer
payment of Basic Rent with respect to that floor until December 1, 1998;

     WHEREAS: Lessee desires to take possession of the fourth floor of the
Building, effective as of this date, and has agreed that the commencement date
for payment of Basic Rent with respect to that floor shall be advanced to
December 1, 1997; and

     WHEREAS: Lessor has agreed to modify the Lease as set forth below: NOW
THEREFORE: the parties agree as follows:

     1. Lessee shall be entitled to take possession of the fourth floor of the
Building on May 27, 1997.

     2. Lessee shall commence payment of Basic Rent for the fourth floor of the
Building commencing December 1, 1997.

     3. Except as set forth herein, the terms of the Lease as previously amended
are hereby confirmed to be in full force and effect.

     Executed as a sealed instrument as of the date first above written.

                                        MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

By: /s/ Philip A. Trussell
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Philip A. Trussell, its
                                            Director of Real Estate
                                            and Assistant Treasurer

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            William A. Martin
                                            Treasurer

1

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.38>
 7
 b63086adexv10w38.txt
 EX-10.38 LEASE AGREEMENT DATED NOVEMBER 14, 1997, AS AMENDED

.
                                                                               .
                                                                               .

                                                                   Exhibit 10.38

                                      INDEX

SECTION   TITLE                                                             PAGE
- -------   -----                                                             ----
                                                                         
1.        Term & Possession                                                   1
          (a) Duration                                                        1
          (b) Memoranda                                                       1

2.        Rent                                                                1
          (a) Minimum Rent                                                    1
          (b) Consumer Price Index                                            2

3.        Rent Adjustment Increases in Operating Expenses and Taxes           3
          (a) Definitions                                                     3
          (b) Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes                           6
          (c) Operating Expense and Tax Statements                            6
          (d) Survival After Termination                                      6
          (e) Reduction or Elimination of Operating Expenses Component        7
          (f) Essential Capital Improvement                                   7
          (g) Tenant's Proportionate Share                                    8
          (h) Review of Books                                                 8

4.        Improvement of the Demised Premises                                 8
          (a) Tenant's Plans                                                  8
          (b) Tenant's Improvement Plans                                      8
          (c) Tenant's Work                                                   8
          (d) Charges For Work                                                8
          (e) Tenant's Contractor                                             9

5.        Services                                                           10
          (a) Water                                                          10
          (b) Electric Current                                               10
          (c) HVAC                                                           10

INDEX - CONTINUED

INDEX - CONTINUED

WITNESSETH that ONE TRIAD CENTER ASSOCIATES (the Landlord), a North Carolina
Partnership, hereby leases unto ANALOG DEVICES, INC. having its principal place
of business at One Triad Center, Greensboro, North Carolina 27409 (the Tenant),
and the Tenant accepts from Landlord, the premises containing approximately
23,734 square feet located on the first floor outlined on the floor plans
hatched in black and attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Premises") in the
Building known as "One Triad Center" (the "Building"), the Building, together
with the land on which it is located and all other improvements thereon being
called the Property), for the term, the rent, and subject to the conditions and
covenants hereinafter provided.

In Consideration thereof, the parties covenant and agree as follows:

1. Term and Possession

     (a) Duration. The term of this Lease shall commence upon the date of
execution of this Lease (the "Commencement Date"),. The term shall continue for
a period terminating on December 31, 2000, unless extended or sooner terminated
as herein provided. During any period of time prior to the commencement date in
which Tenant takes full or partial possession of the Premises for the purpose of
making its improvements thereto or otherwise, Tenant shall be bound by all the
terms and provisions hereof other than the requirement of payment of minimum
rent. It is understood and agreed that the Commencement Date and occupancy may
be extended to the date of execution of the prior tenant's lease termination
agreement.

     (b) Memoranda. When the date of commencement of the term of this Lease is
established, Landlord and Tenant shall promptly execute and acknowledge a
memorandum in form substantially as set forth in Exhibit "B" hereto, containing
the information set forth in said Exhibit.

2. Rent

     (a) Rent shall accrue and be payable effective January 1, 1998, Rent shall
accrue and be payable during the term as follows: minimum annual rent shall be
equal to Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Seventy-Six and 50/100 Dollars
($350,076.50) payable in equal monthly installments of Twenty-Nine Thousand One
Hundred Seventy Three and 04/100 Dollars ($29,173.04) for a term of January 1,
1998 through June 30, 1998. In addition, Tenant shall pay an additional $.29 per
square foot for Operating Expenses and Taxes for the term of January 1, 1998
through December 31, 1998 and thereafter as set forth in Paragraph 3(b) hereof.
Beginning July 1, 1998, the minimum annual rent shall be equal to Three Hundred
Eighty-Five Thousand Six Hundred Seventy-Seven and 50/100 Dollars ($385,677.50)
payable in equal monthly installments of Thirty-Two Thousand One Hundred
Thirty-Nine and 79/100 Dollars ($32,139.79). Such minimum annual rent shall be
payable in advance, in equal monthly installments of one twelfth (1/12th) of the
annual amount, the first monthly installment to be payable upon

4

the commencement date of the term of this Lease, subject to proration based upon
a thirty day month if such commencement date is other than the first day of a
month, and subsequent monthly installments to be payable on the first day of
each successive month of the term hereof following the first month of such term.

     (b) In addition to the rental payable under Section 3 hereof, the minimum
annual rental payable hereunder by Tenant shall be increased as of the first day
of each lease year commencing July 1, 1399 (the "CPI Increase Date") as set
forth below, without duplication.

          (i) "Index" - The Index shall mean the index now known as The United
     States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, Consumer Price
     Index for All Urban Consumers, United States city average, all items
     (1982-84 - 100). In the event the foregoing Index shall hereafter be
     converted or otherwise revised, "Index" shall mean such index or
     combination of indices as Landlord shall select, from any available
     indices, for the purposes of this Section. If the said Bureau shall cease
     publication of indices relating to the foregoing statistical information,
     "Index" shall mean such index or combination of indices of similar
     statistical information as Landlord shall select for the purposes of this
     Section.

          (ii) "Base Index" shall mean the Index for the month two (2) months
     prior to the month in which the term of this Lease shall commence.

          (iii) "Anniversary Index" shall mean the Index for the month (the
     "Anniversary Month") two months prior to the month in which the CPI
     Increase Date shall occur.

          (iv) "Cost of Living Increase" shall mean a fraction, the numerator of
     which shall be the Index in an Anniversary Month less the Base Index, and
     the denominator of which shall be the Base Index.

     Landlord shall furnish to Tenant, after the Index for each Anniversary
Month is published, a statement setting forth the Base Index, the Index for that
Anniversary Month, and the Cost of Living Increase. If the Index for that
Anniversary Month shall exceed the Base Index, there shall accrue, and be
payable by Tenant on the first day of each calendar month in equal monthly
installments as additional minimum rent, for and with respect to each twelve
month (12) month period on and after the CPI Increase Date, an amount determined
by multiplying the Cost of Living Increase times the minimum annual rental under
Section 2.(a) at the commencement date of this Lease. Should the foregoing
calculations be delayed beyond the CPI Increase Date for any year, on or before
the tenth (10th) day following submission of said statement to Tenant, Tenant
shall pay to Landlord a lump sum equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of said additional
minimum annual rent multiplied by the number of full or partial calendar months
elapsed from said CPI Increase Date to the end of the month in

5

which the day of payment occurs. On the first day of each succeeding calendar
month, Tenant shall pay to Landlord one-twelfth (1/12) of said additional
minimum annual rent.

6

3. Rent Adjustment: Increases in Operating Expenses and Taxes

     (a) Definitions. As used in this Paragraph 3, the following terms shall be
defined as hereinafter set forth:

          (i) "Taxes" shall mean all taxes, assessments, and charges levied upon
     or with respect to the Property or any personal property of Landlord used
     in the operation thereof, or Landlord's interest in the Property or such
     personal property. Taxes shall include, without limitation, all general
     real property taxes and general and special assessments, charges, fees, or
     assessments for transit, housing, police, fire, or other governmental
     services or purported benefits to the Property, service payments in lieu of
     taxes, and any tax, fee, or excise on the act of entering into this Lease
     or any other lease of space in the Building, on the use or occupancy of the
     Building or any part thereof, or on the rent payable under any lease or in
     connection with the business of renting space in the Building, that are now
     or hereafter levied or assessed against Landlord by the United States of
     America, the State of North Carolina, or any political subdivision, public
     corporation, district, or other political or public entity. Taxes shall
     also include any other tax, fee, or other excise, however described, that
     may be levied or assessed as a substitute for or as an addition to, in
     whole or in part, any other Taxes, whether or not now customary or in the
     contemplation of the parties on the date of this Lease. Taxes shall not
     include franchise, transfer, inheritance, or capital stock taxes or income
     taxes measured by the net income of Landlord from all sources, unless, due
     to a change in the method of taxation, any such tax is levied or assessed
     against Landlord as a substitute for or as an addition to, in whole or in
     part, any other tax that would otherwise constitute a property Tax. Taxes
     shall also include reasonable legal fees, costs, and disbursements incurred
     in connection with proceedings to contest, determine, or reduce Taxes.

          (ii) "Operating Expenses" shall include all expenses, costs and
     charges paid or incurred by Landlord for the management, operation,
     maintenance and repair ("repair" as used in connection with operating
     expenses shall not include

7

alterations or other capital expenditures made by Landlord, but shall
     include the cost of any capital improvements made that were required under
     any governmental law or regulation that was not applicable to the Premises
     at the time of delivery of possession of the Premises to Tenant for the
     benefit of the Premises) of the Land and Building (as a first class office
     building) and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

               (A) "Labor Costs" (as hereinafter defined) for first class office
               buildings, for the services of the following classes of employees
               performing services required in connection with the operation,
               repair and maintenance of the Building:

                    (1) the Building superintendent, his assistants and the
                    clerical staff attached to the Building superintendent's
                    office;

                    (2) window cleaners and miscellaneous handymen;

                    (3) cleaners and janitors employed in and about the Building
                    for the performance of services;

                    (4) watchmen and persons engaged in patrolling and
                    protecting the Building;

                    (5) carpenters, engineers, mechanics, electricians, painters
                    and plumbers engaged in the operation, repair and
                    maintenance of any part of the Building, the sidewalks
                    around the Building and the heating, air-conditioning,
                    ventilating, plumbing, electrical, elevator and other such
                    systems of the Building;

                    (6) such other personnel employed from time to time in order
                    to properly maintain and operate the Building; and

                    (7) personnel engaged exclusively in supervision of any of
                    the persons mentioned above in subparagraphs (1) through
                    (6).

               (B) The cost of materials and supplies used only in the
               operation, repair and maintenance of the Building.

8

(C) The cost of replacement for tools and equipment used on the
          operation, repair and maintenance of the Building.

          (D) The amounts paid to managing agents for the Building employed by
          Landlord, or for reasonable legal, accounting or other professional
          fees [necessarily incurred in connection with the operation of the
          Building].

          (E) Amounts charged to Landlord by contractors for services, materials
          and supplies furnished in connection with the operation, repair and
          maintenance of any part of the Building and Land, and the heating,
          air-conditioning, ventilating, plumbing, electrical, elevator and
          other systems of the Building.

          (F) Amounts charged to Landlord by contractors for window cleaning,
          and cleaning and janitorial services in and about the Building;

          (G) Premiums paid by Landlord for All Risk Insurance for the Building,
          including, without limitation, fire insurance, with such extended
          coverage, vandalism and malicious, mischief coverage, and rent
          insurance coverage, of the type and character usually carried by
          landlords of similar first class buildings and premiums paid for
          comprehensive general public liability insurance against claims for
          bodily injury, death or property damage, and if carried by Landlord,

9

boiler and machinery insurance and war risk insurance, and such other
          insurance as may from time to time be reasonably required by Landlord
          to protect Landlord against other insurable hazards, which at the time
          are commonly insured against in the case of premises similar to the
          Building.

          (H) Water charges and sewer rents.

          (I) The cost of utilities necessary for the operation, maintenance and
          repair of the Building.

          (J) The cost of electricity (including with out limitation, fuel
          adjustment charges) used to operate lighting fixtures, power
          appliances, machinery, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning
          equipment and all equipment used in connection with the operation,
          maintenance and repair of the Building and the offices therein
          located.

          (K) Any other expense or charge which, in accordance with sound
          accounting and management principles generally accepted with respect
          to first class buildings in Greensboro, North Carolina, would be
          construed as an operating expense.

     Operating Expenses shall be "net only", and for that purpose shall be
reduced by the amounts of any reimbursement, credit, recoupment, discount, or
allowance received by Landlord in connection with such expenses.

     "Labor Costs" shall mean all expenses incurred by Landlord or on Landlord's
behalf which shall be directly related to employment of personnel, including but
not limited to, amounts incurred for wages, salaries and other compensation for
services, payroll, social security, unemployment and other similar taxes,
workmen's compensation insurance, disability benefits, pensions,
hospitalization, retirement plans and group insurance, uniforms and working
clothes and the cleaning thereof, and expenses imposed on or on behalf of the
Landlord pursuant to any collective bargaining agreement.

     The following items shall be excluded from Operating Expenses:

          (i) Labor Costs in respect of officers and executives of Landlord or
     individual partners of a successor of Landlord if such successor be a
     partnership.

          (ii) Any insurance premium to the extent that Landlord is reimbursed
     for such premium.

          (iii) The cost of any items for which Landlord is reimbursed by
     insurance.

          (iv) The cost of any additions to the Building subsequent to the date
     of original construction or any alterations or refurbishing of space leased
     to other tenants of the Building.

10

If the Landlord is not furnishing any particular work or service which Landlord
is obligated to perform under this Lease (the cost of which if performed by the
Landlord would constitute an Operating Expense) to a tenant who has undertaken
to perform such work or service in lieu of the performance thereof by the
Landlord, Operating Expenses shall be deemed for the purposes of this section to
be adjusted downward by an amount equal to the additional Operating Expense
which would reasonably have been incurred during such period by the Landlord if
it had at its own expense furnished such work or service to such tenant.

     (b) Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes. For and with respect to each
calendar year of the term of this Lease that the "Operating Expenses and Taxes"
as hereinabove defined exceed the "Operating Expenses and Taxes" for 1998 (the
"Base Year"), there shall_ accrue, as additional rent, Tenant's Share of
Operating Expenses and Taxes, being a percentage of such excess Operating
Expenses and Taxes based on Tenant's rentable square footage as relayed to the
total rentable square footage in the Building. Such additional rent shall be on
a per-diem basis for any partial calendar year included within the beginning and
end of the term. Any additional rent under this Paragraph shall be paid by
Tenant as a lump sum after the end of the calendar year for which such payment
is first due, and within thirty (30) days after submission of a bill therefor.
In addition, Tenant shall pay as estimated additional monthly rent one-twelfth
of the amount of such additional rent, per month for each calendar month during
the calendar year immediately succeeding the calendar year in which the actual
operating expenses and taxes were incurred, with such procedure being followed
for each year thereafter. If such estimated additional monthly rental payments
for any calendar year exceed the actual additional monthly rent under this
Section 3 for such year, such excess shall be applied as a credit against
subsequent payments of estimated additional monthly rent. The portion of such
additional rent allocable to the months of the then current calendar year
(including the month in which such notice is received) which have then elapsed
(computed on the basis of one-twelfth of Tenant's pro rata portion of such
increases for each elapsed month) shall be due and payable to Landlord fort
with; thereafter, Tenant shall pay on the first day of each calendar month
one-twelfth of the amount of such additional rent.

     (c) Operating Expense and Tax Statements. Landlord shall furnish to Tenant,
contemporaneously with the furnishing of billings to Tenant on account of
Operating Expense and Taxes as hereinbefore provided, a comparative statement
setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for the amount due by Tenant. Any
such comparative statement shall be deemed approved by Tenant unless within
thirty (30) days after the furnishing thereof, Tenant shall notify Landlord that
it disputes the correctness of the statement, specifying in detail the basis for
such assertion. Pending the resolution of such dispute, however, Tenant shall
make payment in accordance with said comparative statement.

     (d) Survival After Termination. If, upon termination of this Lease for any
cause, the amount of any additional rent due pursuant to this Section 3 has not
yet been determined, Tenant

11

shall pay Landlord an estimated amount of additional rent as determined by
Landlord based upon the preceding year's additional rent and, an appropriate
payment from Tenant to Landlord, or refund from Landlord to Tenant, shall be
made promptly after such determination.

     (e) Reduction or Elimination of An Operating Expense Component. If, during
any calendar year, there shall be a reduction or elimination of any particular
component of Operating Expenses by reason of the introduction of a labor saving
device, energy conservation device, capital improvement or replacement installed
by Landlord, the corresponding item of expense in the Operating Expense for the
Base Year, shall be eliminated or reduced (in the same proportion as the
reduction of that item in the period set forth below). The reduction of the
operating expense item in the Base Year shall be made on an annualized basis, in
the same proportion as the reduction of that item for the first 12 months of the
new operation.

     (f) Essential Capital Improvement. In the event Landlord shall hereafter
make a capital expenditure for an "Essential Capital Improvement"", as
hereinafter defined in this Section, the annual amortization of such expenditure
(determined by dividing the amount of the expenditure by the reasonable useful
life of the improvement) shall be deemed a cost to be included within "Operating
Expenses" for each year of such useful life. As used herein, an "Essential
Capital Improvement" means any one or more of the following:

          (1) a labor saving device or other installation, improvement or
     replacement which reduces Operating Expenses, whether or not voluntary or
     required by governmental mandate; or

          (ii) an installation or improvement required by reason of any law,
     ordinance or regulation of any governmental or quasigovernmental body,
     which requirement did not exist on the date hereof, and is applicable
     generally to similar office buildings in the City of Greensboro, North
     Carolina; or

          (iii) an installation or improvement which directly enhances the
     safety of tenants in the Building generally, whether or not voluntary or
     required by governmental mandate (as, for example, but without limitation,
     for fire safety or security).

In no event shall an Essential Capital Improvement be treated as an Operating
Expense component as described under Section 3(e) above.

In determining Operating Expenses for any year, including the Base Year for
Operating Expenses, if less than 95% of the rentable area of the Building shall
have been occupied by tenants for more than thirty (30) days during such year,
Operating Expenses shall be deemed for such year to be an amount equal to the
expenses which would be incurred had such occupancy of the Building been 95%

12

throughout such year, as reasonably determined by Landlord, except that in no
event shall Operating Expenses for any year be based upon a percentage of
occupancy less than that utilized for the Base Year for Operating Expenses.(

     (g) For the purpose of this Section, Tenant's Proportionate Share of
Operating Expenses and Taxes shall be 32.07% which is based on the gross
rentable square foot area of the demised premises of 23,734 sq. ft. as it
relates to the gross rentable square foot area of the Building of 74,000 square
feet.

     (h) Tenant may review Landlord's books and records related to Operating
Expenses and Taxes and the calculation of Tenant's Proportionate Share during
regular business hours upon forty-eight (48) hours notice.

4. Improvement of the Demised Premises

     (a) Tenant's Plans. Landlord or Tenant with Landlord's written approval
agrees to perform work in the Premises as shown on Tenant's Layout Plans, as
prepared by Tenant, and attached hereto and made a part hereof, which plans
designate the construction and finishing of the Premises for Tenant's occupancy.
Tenant's Layout Plans shall be in conformity with the floor plans annexed hereto
as Exhibit "A" and with all applicable laws and requirements of public
authorities. Tenant's Layout Plans shall designate, among other things, the
locations of and specifications for all plumbing, electrical and mechanical
equipment to be installed in the 'remises, all partitions, doors, lighting
fixtures, electric receptacles and switches, telephone outlets and special
air-conditioning and other installations.

     (b) Tenant's Improvement Plans. Tenant's Layout Plans and Finish Plans are
collectively referred to in this Lease as "Tenant's Improvement Plans". The work
required to be performed pursuant to Tenant's Improvement Plans and the
Engineering Plans is herein sometimes referred to as "Tenant Work."

     (c) Tenant's Work. Tenant shall complete and prepare the Premises for
Tenant's initial occupancy in a good and workmanlike manner substantially in
accordance with Tenant's Improvement Plans and the Engineering Plans. Landlord
reserves the right, however:

               (1) to make substitutions of material of equivalent grade and
          quality when and if any specified material shall not be readily and
          reasonably available, and

               (ii) to make changes necessitated by conditions met in the course
          of construction, provided that Tenant's approval of any substantial
          change shall first be obtained (which approval shall not be
          unreasonably withheld or delayed so long as there shall be general
          conformity with Tenant's Improvement Plans).

     (d) Charges for Work. In the completion and preparation of the Premises in
accordance with Tenant's Improvement Plans, Tenant agrees to perform at its own
expense those items of the work set forth on Exhibit "C" attached hereto (herein
referred to as "Standard Tenant Work") 'as shall be reflected in Tenant's
Improvement Plans. All work performed by Tenant in addition to or

13

in substitution for Standard Tenant Work is hereinafter referred to as "Special
Tenant Work". All special Tenant Work shall be furnished, installed and
performed by Tenant upon Landlord's

14

written approval of such Special Tenant Work and at Tenant's expense, utilizing
a general contractor (" Tenant's Contractor") approved by Landlord. Unless
otherwise agreed in writing, the charge to Tenant for Special Tenant Work shall
be Tenant's out-of-pocket expenses of every kind and nature in connection
therewith, including without limitation Tenant's contract or purchase price for
materials, labor and services.

     (e) Tenant's Contractor. Tenant may at its sole expense select and employ
its own contractors for specialized finishing work in the Premises which is not
to be performed by Landlord and which is reflected as such in Tenant's
Improvement Plans, such as carpeting, telephone installation, special cabinet
work and millwork, decoration and installation of specialized equipment, subject
to the following qualifications:

                    (1) Tenant shall first obtain the approval of Landlord, in
                    writing, of the specific work it proposes to perform and
                    shall furnish Landlord with reasonably detailed plans and
                    specifications therefor (such approval not to be
                    unreasonably withheld);

                    (2) The work shall be performed by responsible contractors
                    and subcontractors approved in advance by Landlord, who
                    shall not, in Landlord's reasonable opinion, prejudice
                    Landlord's relationship with Landlord's contractors or
                    subcontractors or the relationship between such contractors
                    and their subcontractors or employees, or disturb harmonious
                    labor relations, who shall furnish in advance and maintain
                    in effect Workmen's Compensation Insurance in accordance
                    with statutory requirements and comprehensive public
                    liability insurance (naming, Landlord and Landlord's
                    contractors and subcontractors and Landlord's managing agent
                    as additional insureds) with limits satisfactory to
                    Landlord, and who shall, prior to the commencement of any
                    work, file waivers of mechanic's liens on account of the
                    work to be performed by any of Tenant's contractors,
                    sub-contractors or materialmen;

                    (3) No such work shall be performed in such manner or at
                    such times as to interfere with any work being done by any
                    of Landlord's contractors or subcontractors in the Premises
                    or in the Building or about the Property generally. Landlord
                    shall, however, endeavor to allow Tenant access for such
                    work prior to the commencement of the term hereof at the
                    earliest time consistent with the restrictions of this
                    subsection (g);

                    (4) Tenant and its contractors and subcontractors shall be
                    solely responsible for the transportation, safekeeping and
                    storage of materials and equipment used in the performance
                    of such finishing work, for the removal of waste and debris
                    resulting therefrom, and for any damage caused by them to
                    any installation or work performed by Landlord's contractors
                    and subcontractors; and

15

(5) Tenant's contractors and subcontractors shall be subject to
               the general administrative supervision of Landlord's general
               contractor for scheduling purposes, but said general contractor
               of Landlord shall not be responsible for any aspect of the work
               performed by Tenant's contractors or subcontractors or for the
               coordination of the work of Landlord's contractors with Tenant's
               contractors.

5. Services

The Landlord shall provide, at Landlord's expense, except as otherwise provided,
the following services on Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M., and
on Saturday from 8:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M., legal holidays excepted.

     (a) Reasonable quantities of water to lavatories, toilets and water
fountains in or appurtenant to the Premises.

     (b) Reasonable amounts of electric current as are customarily provided in
Class A office space. If tenant shall require electric current in excess of that
usually furnished or supplied for use of the Premises as general office space,
Tenant shall first procure the consent of the Landlord which consent Landlord
may refuse. In the event Landlord shall approve Tenant's request for excess
electric current, Landlord may cause an electric check meter to be installed in
the Premises or Landlord shall have the right to cause a reputable independent
electrical engineer or consulting firm to survey and determine the value of such
excess electric current. The cost of any such survey or meters and installation,
maintenance and repairs thereof shall be paid for by Tenant. Tenant agrees to
pay the Landlord, promptly upon demand therefor, for all such excess electrical
current consumed plus any additional expenses incurred in keeping account of the
excess electrical current so consumed. Tenant covenants and agrees that at all
times its use of electrical current shall never exceed Tenant's proportionate
share of the capacity of existing feeders to the Building or the riser or risers
or wiring installation. Any riser or wiring to meet Tenant's excess electric
requirements upon written request of Tenant, will be installed by Landlord at
the sole cost and expense of Tenant, if in Landlord's sole judgment, the same is
necessary and will not cause permanent damage or injury to the Building or the
Premises or cause or create a dangerous or hazardous condition or entail
excessive or unreasonable alteration, repairs or expenses or interfere with or
disturb other tenants or occupants.

     (c) HVAC. Landlord shall furnish heat, ventilation and air-conditioning to
the Premises, Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M., and on Saturday
from 8:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M., legal holidays excepted. Heat and air-conditioning
required by Tenant at times other than those mentioned above shall be supplied
upon reasonable prior notice, and shall be paid for by Tenant, promptly upon
billing, at such rates as Landlord shall from time to time establish therefor.
The heating and air-conditioning systems intended to service the Premises have
been designed to be capable of providing comfortable occupancy for normal office
uses. Any additional or supplementary heating or cooling systems

16

required or desired by Tenant may be installed by Tenant, at Tenant's cost, in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 4 hereof. The furnishing of heat and
air-conditioning shall be subject to any statute, ordinance, rule, regulation,
resolution or recommendation for energy conservation which may be promulgated by

17

any governmental agency or organization which Landlord shall be required to
abide by, or in good faith may elect to abide with.

     (d) Janitorial. Landlord shall provide janitorial services to all portions
of the Premises as specified on Exhibit "D" annexed hereto. Any and all
additional or specialized janitorial service desired by Tenant may be contracted
for by Tenant directly with Landlord's janitorial agent, and the cost and
payment therefor shall be and remain the sole responsibility of Tenant.

     (e) Landlord will keep in operation in the Building during the aforesaid
business period, as many of the passenger elevators as in Landlord's judgment
are necessary to maintain elevator service. In case of accident, labor strikes,
repairs, renewals or improvements to the Building or machinery therein, or for
other cause deemed sufficient by Landlord, or those acting for Landlord, the
operation of said elevators and other machinery may be changed or suspended.

     Landlord reserves the right to alter the hours during which the above
services are to be provided during the term hereof; however services as are
customarily offered in Class A office space shall be provided.

     Should Tenant require any additional work or service, including but not
limited to the additional work or service described above, including service
furnished outside the stipulated hours, Landlord may, on terms to be agreed,
upon reasonable advance notice by Tenant, furnish such additional service and
Tenant agrees to pay the Landlord such charges as may be agreed on, but in no
event at a charge less than Landlord's actual cost plus overhead for the
additional services provided.

     It is understood that Landlord does not warrant that any of the services
referred to above, or any other services which Landlord may supply, will be free
from interruption, Tenant acknowledging that any one or more such services may
be suspended by reason of accident or of repairs, alterations or improvements
necessary to be made, or by strikes or lockouts, or by reason of operation of
law, or causes beyond the reasonable control of Landlord. Any such interruption
or discontinuance of service shall never be deemed an eviction or disturbance of
Tenant's use and possession of the Premises, or any part thereof, or render
Landlord liable to Tenant for damages by abatement of rent or otherwise, or
relieve Tenant from performance of Tenant's obligations under this Lease.

6. Quiet Enjoyment

     So long as the Tenant shall observe and perform the covenants and
agreements binding on it hereunder, the Tenant shall at all times during the
term herein granted peacefully and quietly have and enjoy possession of the
Premises without any encumbrance or hindrance by, from or through the Landlord,
subject to Section 29.

7. Certain Rights Reserved To The Landlord

     The Landlord reserves all rights with respect to the Property not Leased to
Tenant hereby, including without limitation, the following rights:

18

(a) To name the Building and/or to change the name or street address of the
Building.

     (b) To install and maintain a sign or signs on the exterior or interior of
the Building.

     (c) To designate all sources furnishing sign painting and lettering, ice,
drinking water, towels, toilet supplies, shoe shining, vending machines, mobile
vending service, catering, and like services used on the Premises or in the
Building.

     (d) During the last ninety (90) days of the term, if during or prior to
that time the Tenant vacates the Premises, to decorate, remodel, repair, alter
or otherwise prepare the Premises for reoccupancy, without affecting Tenant's
obligation to pay rental for the Premises.

     (e) To constantly have pass keys to the Premises.

     (f) On reasonable prior notice to the Tenant, to exhibit the Premises to
prospective tenants during the last twelve (12) months of the term, and to any
prospective purchaser, mortgagee, or assignee of any mortgage on the Property
and to others having a legitimate interest at any time during the term.

     (g) At any time in the event of an emergency, and otherwise at reasonable
times, to take any and all measures, including inspections, repairs,
alterations, additions, and improvements to the Premises or to the Building, as
may be necessary or desirable for the safety, protection or preservation of the
Premises or the Building or the Landlord's interests, or as may be necessary or
desirable in the operation or improvement of the Building or in order to comply
with all laws, orders and requirements of governmental or other authority.

     (h) To install vending machines of all kinds in the Premises, and to
provide mobile vending service therefor, and to receive all of the revenue
derived therefrom, provided, however, that no vending machines shall be
installed by Landlord in the Premises nor shall any mobile vending service be
provided therefor, unless Tenant so requests.

8. Estoppel Certificate by Tenant

     The Tenant agrees that from time to time upon not less than ten (10) days
prior request by the Landlord, the Tenant will deliver to the Landlord a
statement in writing certifying (a) that this Lease is unmodified and in full
force and effect (or if there have been modifications that the same is in full
force and effect as modified and identifying the modifications), (b) the dates
to which the minimum annual rent and other charges have been paid, (c) whether
or not Tenant has or claims any offset, deduction or counter claims against
Landlord under this Lease and (d) that, so far as the person making the
certificate knows, the Landlord is not in default under any provision of this
Lease, and, if the Landlord is in default, specifying each such default of which
the person making the certificate may have knowledge, it being understood that
any such statement so delivered may be relied upon by any landlord under any
ground or underlying lease, or any prospective purchaser, mortgagee, or any
assignee of any mortgage on the Property.

19

9. Waiver of Certain Claims

     The Tenant, to the extent permitted by law, waives all claims it may lave
against the Landlord, and against the Landlord's agents and employees for damage
to person or property sustained by the Tenant or by any occupant of the
Premises, or by any other person, resulting from any part of the Property or any
equipment or appurtenances becoming out of repair, or resulting from any
accident in or about the Property or resulting directly or indirectly from any
act or neglect of any tenant or occupant of any Dart of the Property or of any
other person, unless such damage is a result of the negligence or contributory
negligence of Landlord, or Landlord's agents or employees. If any damage results
from any act or neglect of the Tenant, the Landlord may, at the Landlord's
option, repair such damage and the Tenant shall thereupon pay to the Landlord
the total cost of such repair.

     All personal property belonging to the Tenant or any occupant of the
Premises that is in or on any part of the Property shall be there at the risk of
the Tenant or of such other person only, and the Landlord, its agents and
employees shall not be liable for any damage thereto or for the theft or
misappropriation thereof unless such damage, theft or misappropriation is a
result of the negligence or contributory negligence of Landlord or Landlord's
agents or employees. The Tenant agrees to hold the Landlord harmless and
indemnified against claims and liability for injuries to all persons and for
damage to or loss of property occurring in or about the Property, due to any act
of negligence or default under this lease by the Tenant, its contractors, agents
or employees.

     To the extent that the Tenant carries hazard insurance on any of its
property in the Premises and to the extent that the Landlord carries hazard
insurance on the Property, each policy of insurance shall contain, if obtainable
from the insurer selected by the Tenant or the Landlord, as the case may be,
without additional expense, a provision waiving subrogation against the other
party to this Lease. If such provision can be obtained only at additional
expense, the obligation to obtain such provision shall continue if the other
party, on notice shall pay the amount of such additional expense. Each of the
parties hereto hereby releases the other with respect to any liability which the
other may have for any damage by fire or other casualty with respect to which
the party against whom such release is claimed shall be insured under a policy
or policies of insurance containing such provision waiving subrogation.

10. Liability Insurance

     Tenant shall, at its expense, maintain during the term, comprehensive
public liability insurance, contractual liability insurance and property damage
insurance under policies issued by insurers, with limits of not less than
$5,000,000 for personal injury, bodily injury, death, or for damage or injury to
or destruction of property'(including the loss of use thereof) for any one
occurrence. Tenant's policies shall name Landlord, its

20

agents, servants and employees as additional insureds. At the option of the
Landlord, copies of certificates of insurance coverage shall be held by
Landlord.

11. Holding Over

     If the Tenant retains possession of the Premises or any part thereof for a
period of one (1) month after the termination of the term, the Tenant shall pay
the Landlord Rent at triple the monthly rate specified in Section 2 and Section
3. If Tenant retains possession beyond that one (1) month period, tenancy shall
continue at sufferance on a month-to-month basis at double the monthly rent
specified in Section 2 and Section 3 for the time the Tenant thus remains in
possession and, in addition thereto, shall pay the Landlord for all damages
consequential as well as direct, sustained by reason of the Tenant's retention
of possession. If the Tenant remains in possession of the Premises, or any part
thereof, for a period greater than one (1) month after the expiration of the
term, such holding over shall, at the election of the Landlord expressed in a
written notice to the Tenant and not otherwise, constitute a renewal of this
lease for one year. The provisions of this Section do not exclude the Landlord's
rights of re-entry or any other right hereunder.

12. Assignment and Subletting

     The Tenant shall not, without the Landlord's prior written consent which
shall not be unreasonably withheld, (a) assign, convey, mortgage, pledge,
encumber or otherwise transfer (whether voluntarily or otherwise) this Lease or
any interest under it; (b) allow any transfer thereof or any lien upon the
Tenant's interest by operation of law; (c) sublet the Premises or any part
thereof, or (J) permit the use or occupancy of the Premises or any part thereof
by any one other than the Tenant.

     Tenant agrees to pay to Landlord, on demand, reasonable costs incurred by
Landlord in connection with any request by Tenant for Landlord to consent to any
assignment or subletting by Tenant.

     If this lease be assigned or if the Premises or any part thereof be sublet
or occupied by anybody other than Tenant, Landlord may, after default by Tenant,
collect rent from the assignee, subtenant or occupant, and apply the net amount
collected to the Rent herein reserved, but no such assignment, subletting,
occupancy or collection shall be deemed a waiver of any of Tenants covenants
contained in this Lease or the acceptance of the assignee, subtenant or occupant
as Tenant, or a release of Tenant from further performance by Tenant of
covenants on the part of Tenant herein contained.

     Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, and in addition
to the Landlord's right to consent to such assignment, in toe event that any
time during the term of this Lease, Tenant desires to assign this Lease, Tenant
should notify the Landlord in writing (hereinafter referred to as "Assignment
Notice") of the terms of the proposed assignment and shall give the Landlord the

21

option to accept an assignment from the Tenant of this Lease on the same terms
as this Lease or, at Landlord's option, to terminate this lease. The option to
accept such assignment or to terminate this Lease shall be exercisable by
Landlord in writing for a period of fifteen (15) days after the receipt of the
Assignment Notice.

     Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, and in addition
to Landlord's right to consent to such sublet, in the event that at any time
during the term of this lease Tenant desires to sublet all or part of the
Premises, Tenant shall notify the Landlord in writing (hereinafter referred to
as "Sublet Notice") of the terms of the proposed subletting and the area so
proposed to be sublet and shall give the Landlord the option to sublet from
Tenant such space (hereinafter referred to as "sublet space") at the same rent
and additional rent as Tenant is required to pay to Landlord under this lease
for the same space or, at Landlord's option, to terminate the lease with respect
to the sublet space. If the sublet space does not constitute the entire Premises
and Landlord exercises its option to terminate this lease with respect to the
sublet space, then as to that portion of the Premises which is not part of the
sublet space, this lease shall remain in full force and effect except that the
Rent shall be reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the
rentable square feet of the sublet space and the denominator of which shall be
the rentable square feet of the Premises. The option to sublet, or to terminate
the lease, shall be exercisable by Landlord in writing for a period of fifteen
(15) days after receipt of the Sublet Notice.

     In the event Landlord exercises its option to accept such assignment or to
sublease the sublet space, the terms of the assignment or the term of the
subletting from the Tenant to the Landlord for the sublet space shall be as set
forth in the Assignment Notice or the Sublet Notice, as the case may be, and
shall be on such other terms and conditions as are contained in this lease to
the extent applicable.

     Tenant shall be entitled to receive Gross Proceeds (as hereinafter defined)
in an amount (the "Priority Tenant Share") equal to the sum of $1,000. After
Tenant has received the Priority Tenant Share, Tenant shall pay Landlord, as
additional rent, as and when received, fifty percent (50%) of Gross Proceeds.

     "Gross Proceeds" means an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (x) :he
amounts which are payable by the sublessee or an assignee under or in connection
with any sublease or assignment of the Premises (less, in the case of each
payment of fixed rent or basic rent, an amount equal to five (5%) percent of
each such payment) over (y) the corresponding amounts, if any, payable under
this Lease (or if there be no such corresponding amount, in excess of zero).
Amounts which are payable by the sublessee or an assignee under or in connection
with any sublease or assignment of the Premises shall be deemed (x) not to be
Gross Proceeds until such payment is received by Tenant and (y) not to include
any payment

22

by the sublessee or an assignee under such sublease or operative document(s)
with respect to such assignment which is identified as a payment for tenant
improvements which were constructed by Tenant, or at Tenant's direction, for
such sublessee or assignee, which shall not exceed in the aggregate the then
unamortized cost to Tenant of such tenant improvements.

     In the event Landlord does not exercise either of its options specified
above and Tenant completes an assignment or a sublease with a third party, the
assignee or subtenant shall be subject to and comply with the requirements of
this Section.

13. Condition of Premises

     Tenant's taking possession of the Premises shall be conclusive evidence as
against the Tenant that the Premises were in good order and satisfactory
condition when the Tenant took possession. No promises of the Landlord to alter,
remodel, repair or improve the Premises or the Building and no representation
respecting the condition of the Premises or the Building have been made by
Landlord to Tenant, other than as may be contained herein or in a separate Work
Letter Agreement signed by Landlord and Tenant. At the termination of this
Lease, the Tenant shall return the Premises broom-clean and in as good condition
as when the Tenant took possession, ordinary wear and loss by fire or other
casualty excepted, failing which the Landlord may restore the Premises to such
condition and the Tenant shall pay the cost thereof on demand.

14. Use Of Premises

     The Tenant agrees to comply with the following rules and regulations and
with such reasonable modifications thereof and additions thereto as the Landlord
may hereafter from time to time make for the Building. The Landlord shall not be
responsible for the -Ion-observance by any other tenant of any of said rules and
regulations.

     (a) The Tenant shall not exhibit, sell or offer for sale on the Premises or
in the Building, any article or thing except those articles or things
essentially connected with the stated use of the Premises by the Tenant without
the advance consent of the Landlord.

     (b) The Tenant will not make or permit to be made any use of the Premises
or any part thereof which would violate any of the covenants, agreements, terms,
provisions and conditions of this Lease or which directly or indirectly is
forbidden by public law, ordinance or governmental regulation or which may be
dangerous to life, limb, or property, or which may invalidate or increase the
premium cost of any policy of insurance carried on the Building or covering its
operation, or which will suffer or permit the Premises or any part thereof to be
used in any manner or anything to be brought into or kept therein which, in the
judgment of Landlord, shall in any way impair or tend to impair the character,
reputation or appearance of the Property as a high quality office building, or
which will impair or interfere with or tend to impair or interfere with any of
the services performed by Landlord for

23

the Property.

     (c) The Tenant shall not display, inscribe, print, paint maintain or affix
on any place in or about the Building any sign, notice, legend, direction,
figure or advertisement, except on the doors of the Premises and on the
Directory Board, which shall be maintained by Landlord,, and then only such
names(s) and matter, and in such color, size, style, place and materials, as
shall firs: have been approved by the Landlord. The listing of any name other
than that of Tenant, whether on the doors of the Premises, on the Building
directory, or otherwise, shall not operate to vest

24

any right or interest in this Lease or in the Premises or be deemed to be the
written consent of Landlord mentioned in Section 12, it being expressly
understood that any such listing is a privilege extended by Landlord revocable
at will by written notice to Tenant.

     (d) The Tenant shall not advertise the business, profession or activities
of the Tenant conducted in the Building in any manner which violates the letter
or spirit of any code of ethics adopted by any recognized association or
organization pertaining to such business, profession or activities, and shall
not use the name of the Building for any purposes other than that of the
business address of the Tenant and shall never use any picture or likeness of
the Building in any circulars, notices, advertisements or correspondence without
the Landlord's consent.

     (e) No additional locks or similar devices shall be attached to any door or
window without Landlord's prior written consent which shall not be unreasonably
withheld, so long as keys or access cards to such locks or devices are provided
to Landlord. No keys for any doors other than those provided by the Landlord
shall be made. If more than five (5) keys for one lock are desired, the Landlord
will provide the same upon payment by the Tenant. All keys must be returned to
the Landlord at the expiration or termination of this Lease.

     (f) The Tenant shall not make any alterations, improvements or additions to
the Premises including, but not limited to, wall coverings, floor coverings and
special lighting installations, without the Landlord's advance written consent
in each and every instance, unless such alterations, improvements or additions
are non-structural and the cost of such is less than, or equal to, one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). In the event Tenant desires to make alterations,
improvements or additions, Tenant shall first submit to Landlord plans and
specifications therefor and obtain Landlord's written approval thereof prior to
commencing any such work. All alterations, improvements or additions, whether
temporary or permanent in character, made by Landlord or Tenant in or upon the
Premises shall become Landlord's property and shall remain upon the Premises at
the termination of this Lease without compensation to Tenant (excepting only
Tenant's movable office furniture, trade fixtures, office and professional
equipment) provided, however, that Landlord shall have the right to require
Tenant to remove such alterations, improvements or additions, at Tenant's cost,
upon the termination of this Lease and to repair any damage to the Premises
resulting therefrom.

     (g) All persons entering or leaving the Building after hours on Monday
through Friday, or at any time on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, may be
required to do so under such regulations as the Landlord may impose. The
Landlord may exclude or expel any peddler.

     (h) The Tenant shall not overload any floor. The Landlord may direct the
time and manner of delivery, routing and removal, and the location, of safes and
other heavy articles.

     (i) Unless the Landlord gives advance written consent, the Tenant shall not
install or operate any steam or internal

25

combustion engine, boiler, machinery, refrigerating or heating device or
air-conditioning apparatus in or about the Premises, or carry on any mechanical
business therein, or use the Premises for housing accommodations or lodging or
sleeping purposes, or use any illumination other than electric light, or use or
permit to be brought into the Building any inflammable fluids such as gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, and benzine, or any explosives, radioactive materials or
other articles deemed extra hazardous to life, limb or property except in a
manner which would not violate any ordinance or regulation of the City. The
Tenant shall not use the Premises for any illegal or immoral purpose. Tenant
shall be permitted to install a refrigerator, microwave oven, and coffee machine
for its own use.

     (j) The Tenant shall cooperate fully with the Landlord to assure the
effective operation of the Building's air-conditioning system including the
closing of venetian blinds and drapes, and if windows are operable to keep them
closed when the air-conditioning system is in use.

     (k) The Tenant shall not contract for any work or service which might
involve the employment of labor incompatible with the Building employees or
employees of contractors doing work or performing services by or on behalf of
the Landlord.

     (l) The sidewalks, halls, passages, exits, entrances, elevators and
stairways shall not be obstructed by the Tenant or used for any purpose other
than for ingress to and egress from its Premises. The halls, passages, exits,
entrances, elevators, stairways and roof are not for the use of the general
public and the Landlord shall in all cases retain the right to control and
prevent access thereto by all persons whose presence, in the judgment of the
Landlord, shall be prejudicial to the safety, character, reputation and
interests of the Building and its tenants, provided that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to prevent such access to persons with whom the
Tenant normally deals in the ordinary course of Tenant's business unless such
persons are engaged in illegal activities. No Tenant and no employees or
invitees of any Tenant shall go upon the roof or mechanical floors of the
Building.

     (m) Tenant shall not use, keep or permit to be used or kept any foul or
noxious gas or substance in the Premises, or permit or suffer the Premises to be
occupied or used in a manner offensive or objectionable to the Landlord or other
occupants of the Building by reason of noise, odors and/or vibrations, or
interfere in any way with other tenants or those having business therein, nor
shall any animals or birds be brought in or kept in or about the Premises or the
Building.

     (n) Tenant shall see that the doors, and windows, if operable, of the
Premises are closed and securely locked before leaving the Building and must
observe strict care and caution that all water faucets or water apparatus are
entirely shut off before Tenant or Tenant's employees leave the Building, and
that all electricity shall likewise be carefully shut off so as to prevent waste
or damage, and for any default or carelessness Tenant shall make good all
injuries or losses sustained by other tenants or occupants of the Building or
Landlord.

26

In addition to all other liabilities for breach of any covenant of this
Section, the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord an amount equal to any increase in
insurance premiums payable by the Landlord or any other tenant in the Building,
caused by such breach.

15. Repairs

     Tenant shall give to Landlord prompt written notice of any damage to, or
defective condition in any part or appurtenance of the 3uilding's plumbing,
electrical, heating, air-conditioning or other systems serving, located in, or
passing through the Premises. Subject to the provisions of Section 13, the
Tenant shall, at the Tenant's own expense, keep the Premises in good order,
condition and repair during the term, except that the Landlord, at the
Landlord's expense (unless caused by the fault or negligence of the Tenant, its
contractors, agents, or employees) shall keep in repair the elevators,
electrical lines, plumbing fixtures located in the Building (except those
installed by Tenant with Landlord's approval) heating and air-conditioning
equipment, outside walls, including windows, and roof. The Tenant at the
Tenant's expense, shall comply with all laws and ordinances, and all rules and
regulations of all governmental authorities, applicable to the Premises or to
the Tenant's use thereof, except that the Tenant shall not hereby be under any
obligation to comply with any law, ordinance, rule or regulation requiring any
structural alteration of or in connection with the Premises, unless such
alteration is required by reason of a condition which has been created by, or at
the instance of, the Tenant, or is required by reason of a breach of any of the
Tenant's covenants and agreements hereunder. In addition Tenant shall be
obligated to comply with the rules and regulations of all insurance bodies in
the event all or a portion of the Premises is used for any purpose other than
office space. Landlord shall not be required to repair any injury or damage by
fire or other cause, or to make any repairs or replacements of any panels,
decoration, office fixtures, railing, ceiling, floor covering, partitions, or
any other property installed in the Premises by, or at the cost of, the Tenant.

16. Untenantability

     If the Premises are made untenantable in whole or in part by fire or other
casualty the Rent, until repairs shall be made or this Lease terminated as
hereinafter provided, shall be apportioned on a per diem basis according to the
part of the Premises which is usable by the Tenant, if, but only if, such fire
or other casualty be not caused by the fault or negligence of the Tenant, its
contractors, agents, or employees. If such damage be so extensive that the
Premises cannot be restored to "Building Standard" by the Landlord within a
period of three (3) months, either party shall have the right to cancel this
Lease by notice to the other given at any time with thirty (30) days after the
date of such damage; except that if such fire or casualty resulted from the
Tenant's fault or negligence, the Tenant shall have no right to cancel. If a
portion of the Building other than the Premises shall be so damaged that in the
opinion of the Landlord the Building should not be restored or should be
restored in such a way as to alter the Premises materially, the Landlord may
cancel

27

this Lease by notice to the Tenant given at any time within thirty

28

(30) days after the date of such damage. In the event of giving effective notice
pursuant to this Section, this Lease and the term and the estate hereby granted
shall expire on the date fifteen (15) days after the giving of such notice as
fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinbefore set for the
expiration of the term of this Lease. If this Lease is not so terminated, the
Landlord will promptly repair the damage at the Landlord's expense.

17. Eminent Domain

     (a) In the event that title to the whole or any substantial part of the
Premises shall be lawfully condemned or taken in any manner for any public or
quasi-public use, this lease and the term and estate hereby granted shall
forthwith cease and terminate as of the date of vesting of title and the
Landlord shall be entitled to receive the entire award, the Tenant hereby
assigning to the Landlord the Tenant's interest therein, if any.

     (b) In the event that title to a part of the Building other than the
Premises shall be so condemned or taken and if in the opinion of the Landlord,
the Building should not be restored or should be restored in such a way as to
alter the Premises materially, the Landlord may terminate this lease and the
term and estate hereby granted by notifying the Tenant of such termination
within sixty (60) days following the date of vesting title, and this lease and
the term and estate hereby granted shall expire on the date specified in the
notice of termination, not less than sixty (60) days after the giving of such
notice, as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinbefore set
for the expiration of the term of this lease, and the Rent hereunder shall be
apportioned as of such date.

18. Landlord's Remedies

     All rights and remedies of the Landlord herein enumerated shall be
cumulative, and none shall exclude any other right or remedy allowed by law. In
addition to the other remedies in this lease provided, the Landlord shall be
entitled to the restraint by injunction of the violation or attempted violation
of any of the covenants, agreements or conditions of this Lease.

     (a) If the Tenant shall (i) apply for or consent to the appointment of a
receiver, trustee or liquidator of the Tenant or of all or a substantial part of
its assets, (ii) file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or admit in writing its
inability to pay its debts as they come due, (iii) make a general assignment for
the benefit of creditors, (iv) file a petition or an answer seeking
reorganization or arrangement with creditors or to take advantage of any
insolvency law, or (v) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a
petition filed against the Tenant in any bankruptcy, reorganization or
insolvency proceeding, or not have such petition dismissed within ninety (90)
days or if an order, judgment or decree shall be entered by any court of
competent jurisdiction adjudicating the Tenant a bankrupt or insolvent or
approving a petition seeking reorganization of the Tenant or appointing a
receiver, trustee or liquidator of the Tenant or of all or a substantial part of
its assets, then in any of such events, the Landlord may give to the Tenant a
notice of

29

intention to end the term of this Lease specifying a day not earlier than thirty
(30) days thereafter, and upon the giving of such notice the term of this Lease
and all right, title and interest of the Tenant hereunder shall expire as fully
and completely on the day so specified as if that day were the date herein
specifically fixed for the expiration of the term.

     (b) If the Tenant defaults in the payment of minimum annual rent and such
default continues for ten (10) days after notice, or defaults in the prompt and
full performance of any other provision of this Lease and such default continues
for fifteen (15) days after notice, or if the leasehold interest of the Tenant
be levied upon under execution or be attached by process of law, or if the
Tenant abandons the Premises, then and in any such event the Landlord may, at
its election, either terminate the Lease and the Tenant's right to possession of
the Premises or, without terminating this Lease, endeavor to relet the Premises.
Notwithstanding the above, Landlord shall only be obligated to give Tenant
notice of a default in rent payment two (2) times in each lease year.
Thereafter, Tenant shall be immediately in default if rent payments are not made
on the date due. Nothing herein shall be construed so as to relieve the Tenant
of any obligation, including the payment of minimum annual rent, as provided in
this Lease.

     (c) Upon any termination of this lease, the Tenant shall surrender
possession and vacate the Premises immediately, and deliver possession thereof
to the Landlord, and hereby grants to the Landlord full and free license to
enter into and upon the Premises in such event with or without process of law
and to repossess the Landlord of the Premises as of the Landlord's former estate
and to expel or remove the Tenant and any others who may be occupying or within
the Premises and to remove any and all property therefrom, using such force as
may be necessary, without being deemed in any manner guilty of trespass,
eviction or forcible entry or detainer, and without relinquishing the Landlord's
right to rent or any other right given to the Landlord hereunder or by operation
of law.

     (d) If the Tenant abandons the Premises or the Landlord otherwise becomes
entitled so to elect, and the Landlord elects, without terminating the lease, to
endeavor to relet the Premises, the Landlord may, at the Landlord's option enter
into the Premises, remove the Tenant's signs and other evidence of tenancy, and
take and hold possession thereof as in Paragraph (c) of this Section provided,
without such entry and possession terminating the lease or releasing the Tenant,
in whole or in part, from the Tenant's obligation to pay the Rent hereunder for
the full term as hereinafter provided. Upon and after entry into possession
without termination of the lease, the Landlord may relet the Premises or any
part thereof for the account of the Tenant to any person, firm or corporation
other than the Tenant for such rent, for such time and upon such terms as the
Landlord shall determine, to be reasonable. In any such case, the Landlord may
make repairs, alterations and additions in or to the Premises, and redecorate
the same to the extent deemed by the Landlord necessary or desirable, and the
Tenant shall, upon demand, pay the cost

30

thereof, together with the Landlord's expenses of the reletting. If tie
consideration collected by the Landlord upon any such reletting for the Tenant's
account is not sufficient to pay monthly the full amount of the Rent reserved in
this lease, together with the cost of repairs, alterations, additions,

31

redecorating and the Landlord's expenses, the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord
the amount of each monthly deficiency upon demand and if the consideration so
collected from any such reletting is more than sufficient to pay the full amount
of the Rent reserved herein, together with the costs and expenses of the
Landlord, the Landlord, at the end of the stated term of this lease, shall
account to the Tenant.

     (e) If the Landlord elects to terminate this lease in any of the
contingencies specified in this Section, it being understood that the Landlord
may elect to terminate the lease after and notwithstanding its election to
terminate the Tenant's right to possession as in Paragraph (b) of this Section
provided, the Landlord shall forthwith upon such termination be entitled to
recover as damages, and not as a penalty, an amount equal to the then present
value of the minimum annual rent and additional rent provided in this lease for
the residue of the stated term hereof, less the present value of the fair rental
value of the Premises for the residue of the stated term.

     (f) Any and all property which may be removed from the Premises by the
Landlord pursuant to the authority of the lease or of law, to which the Tenant
is or may be entitled, may be handled, removed or stored by the Landlord at the
risk, cost and expense of the Tenant, and the Landlord shall in no event be
responsible for the value, preservation or safekeeping thereof. The Tenant shall
pay to the Landlord, upon demand, any and all expenses incurred in such removal
and all storage charges against such property so long as the same shall be in
the Landlord's possession or under the Landlord's control. Any such property of
the Tenant not removed from the Premises or retaken from storage by the Tenant
within thirty (30) days after the end of the term or of the Tenant's right to
possession of the Premises, however terminated, shall be conclusively deemed to
have been forever abandoned by the Tenant and either may be retained by Landlord
as its property or may be disposed of in such manner as Landlord may see fit.

     (g) The Tenant agrees that if it shall at any time fail to make any payment
or perform any other act on its part to be made or performed under this lease,
the Landlord may, but shall not be obligated to, and after reasonable notice or
demand and without waiving, or releasing the Tenant from, any obligation under
this lease, make such payment or perform such other act to the extent the
Landlord may deem desirable, and in connection therewith to pay expenses and
employ counsel. The Tenant agrees to pay a reasonable attorney's fee if legal
action is required to enforce performance by Tenant of any condition, obligation
or requirement hereunder. All sums so paid by the Landlord and all expenses in
connection therewith, together with interest thereon at the rate of 18% per
annum from the date of payment, shall be deemed additional rent hereunder and
payable at the time of any installment of Rent thereafter becoming due and the
Landlord shall have the same rights and remedies for the non-payment thereof, or
of any other additional rent, as in the case of default in the payment of rent.

     (h) Interest on Past Due Payments and Advances. Tenant

32

covenants and agrees to pay to Landlord interest on demand at the rate of 2%
above the "Prime Rate," as hereinafter defined, on the amount of any Monthly
Rent or Monthly Deposit not paid when due,

33

from the date due and payable and on the amount of any payment made by Landlord
required to have been made by Tenant under this Lease and on the amount of any
costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, paid by Landlord in
connection with the taking of any action to cure any Default by tenant from the
date of making any such payment or the advancement of such costs and expenses by
Landlord. "Prime Rate" shall mean that interest rate set by Wachovia Bank of
North Carolina, N.A., from time to time as its interest rate basis for
commercial borrowings, but never in excess of the maximum amount of finance
charge permissible under applicable law. In the event that the Bank discontinues
the use of a Prime Rate, the Prime Rate being charged by any other national
banking association located in North Carolina, as selected by Landlord in its
sole discretion, shall be used for computing the interest rate under this
Section.

19. Notice and Consents

     All notices, demands, requests, consents or approvals which may or are
required to be given by either party to the other shall be in writing and shall
be deemed given when sent by United States Certified or Registered Mail, postage
prepaid, (a) if for the Tenant, addressed to Facilities Manager at the Building,
and to Tenant at 1 Technology Way, P.O. Box 9106, Norwood, MA 02062, Attention:
Chief Financial Officer or at such other place as the Tenant may from time to
time designate by notice to the Landlord, or (b) if for the Landlord, addressed
to the office of the Landlord in the Building with a copy to Landlord addressed
to Suite 1200, 230 S. Tryon Street, Charlotte, NC 28202 or at such other places
as the Landlord may from time to time designate by notice to the Tenant. All
consents and approvals provided for herein must be in writing to be valid. If
the term Tenant as used in this lease refers to more than one person, any
notice, consent, approval, request, bill, demand or statement, given as
aforesaid to any one of such persons shall be deemed to have been duly given to
Tenant.

     Except as specifically provided in this lease, Tenant hereby expressly
waives the service of intention to terminate this lease or to re-enter the
Premises and waives the service of any demand for payment of Rent or for
possession and waives the service of any other notice or demand prescribed by
any statute or other law.

20. Invalidity of Particular Provisions; Severability

     If any clause or provision of this lease is or becomes illegal, invalid, or
unenforceable because of present or future laws or any rule or regulation of any
governmental body or entity, effective during its term,, the intention of the
parties hereto is that the remaining parts of this lease shall not be affected
thereby unless such invalidity is, in the sole determination of Landlord,
essential to the rights of both parties in which event Landlord has the right to
terminate this lease on written notice to Tenant.

21. Waiver of Benefits

     Tenant waives the benefits of all existing and future Rent Control
Legislation and Statutes and similar governmental rules and regulations, whether
in time of war or not, to the extent permitted by law.

34

22. Miscellaneous Taxes

     Tenant shall pay prior to delinquency all taxes assessed against or levied
upon its occupancy of the Premises, or upon the fixtures, furnishings, equipment
and all other personal property of Tenant located in the Premises, if nonpayment
thereof shall give rise to a lien on the Property, and when possible Tenant
shall cause said fixtures, furnishings, equipment and other personal property to
be assessed and billed separately from the property of Landlord. In the event
any or all of Tenant's fixtures, furnishings, equipment and other personal
property, or upon Tenant's occupancy of the Premises, shall be assessed and
taxed with the property of Landlord, Tenant shall pay to Landlord its share of
such taxes within ten (10) days after delivery to Tenant by Landlord of a
statement in writing setting forth the amount of such taxes applicable to
Tenant's fixtures, furnishings, equipment or personal property.

23. Sprinklers

     If there now is or shall be installed in the Building a "sprinkler system,"
and such system or any of its appliances shall be damaged or injured or not in
proper working order by reason of any act or omission of the Tenant, Tenant's
agents, servants, employees, licensees or visitors, the Tenant shall forthwith
restore the same to good working conditions at its own expense; and if the Board
of Fire Underwriters of Fire Insurance Exchange or any bureau, department or
official of the state or city government, require or recommend that any changes,
modifications, alterations or additional sprinkler heads or other equipment be
made or supplied solely by reason of the Tenant's business, or the location of
partitions, trade fixtures, or other contents, of the Premises requested,
required or installed by Tenant, or if any such changes, modifications,
alterations, additional sprinkler heads or other equipment, become necessary to
prevent the imposition of a penalty or charge against the full allowance for a
sprinkler system in the fire insurance rate as fixed by said Exchange, or by any
fire insurance company, Tenant shall, at the Tenant's expense, promptly make and
supply such changes, modifications, alterations, additional sprinkler head or
other equipment.

24. No Estate In Land

     This contract and lease shall create the relationship of landlord and
tenant between Landlord and Tenant; no estate shall pass out of Landlord; and
Tenant has only a usufruct which is not subject to levy and sale.

25. Security Deposit - DELETED INTENTIONALLY

26. Substitute Premises

     If the Premises contain an area of 2,000 square feet or less, Landlord
shall have the right at any time during the term hereof, upon giving Tenant not
less than sixty (60) days prior written notice, to provide and furnish Tenant
with space elsewhere in the Building of approximately the same size as the
Premises and remove

35

and place Tenant in such space, with Landlord to pay all reasonable costs and
expenses incurred as a result of such removal of Tenant. Should Tenant refuse to
permit Landlord to move Tenant to such new space at the end of said sixty (60)
day period, Landlord shall have the right to cancel and terminate this lease
effective ninety (90) days from the date of original notification by Landlord.
If Landlord moves Tenant to such new space, this lease and each and all of its
terms, covenants and conditions shall remain in full force and effect and be
deemed applicable to such new space, and such new space shall thereafter be
deemed to be the Premises as though Landlord and Tenant had entered upon an
express written amendment of this lease with respect thereto.

27. Brokerage

     Tenant represents and warrants that it has dealt with no broker, agent or
other person in connection with this transaction and that no broker, agent or
other person brought about this transaction, other than Binswanger Southern,
(N.C.) Inc., the authorized Agent of the Landlord, and Tenant agrees to
indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any claims by any other
broker, agent or other person claiming a commission or other form of
compensation by virtue of having dealt with Tenant with regard to this leasing
transaction. The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of
this lease.

28. Special Stipulations

     (a) No receipt of money by the Landlord from the Tenant after the
termination of this lease or after the service of any notice or after the
commencement of any suit, or after final judgment for possession of the Premises
shall reinstate, continue or extend the term of this lease or affect any such
notice, demand or suit or imply consent for any action for which Landlord's
consent is required.

     (b) No waiver of any default of the Tenant hereunder shall be implied from
any omission by the Landlord to take any action on account of such default if
such default persists or be repeated, and no express waiver shall affect any
default other than the default specified in the express waiver and that only for
the time and to the extent therein stated.

     (c) The term "Landlord" as used in this lease, so far as covenants or
agreements on the part of the Landlord are concerned, shall be limited to mean
and include only the owner or owners of the Landlord's interest in this lease at
the time in question, and in the event of any transfer or transfers of such
interest the Landlord herein named (and in case of any subsequent transfer, the
then transferor) shall be automatically freed and relieved from and after the
date of such transfer of all personal liability as respects the performance of
any covenants or agreements on the part of the Landlord contained in this lease
thereafter to be performed.

     (d) It is understood that the Landlord may occupy portions of the 3uilding
in the conduct of the Landlord's business. In such event, all references herein
to other tenants of the Building shall be deemed to include the Landlord as an
occupant.

     (e) The term "City" as used in this lease shall be understood

36

to mean the City in which the Property is located.

     (f) All of the covenants of the Tenant hereunder shall be deemed and
construed to be "conditions" as well as "covenants" as though the words
specifically expressing or importing covenants and conditions were used in each
separate instance.

     (g) This Lease shall not be recorded by either party without the consent of
the other.

     (h) Neither party has made any representations or promise, except as
contained herein, or in some further writing signed by the party making such
representation or promise.

     (i) In the absence of fraud, no person, firm or corporation, or the heirs,
legal representatives, successors and assigns, respectively, thereof, executing
this lease as agent, trustee or in any other representative capacity shall ever
be deemed or held individually liable hereunder for any reason or cause
whatsoever.

     (j) In event of variation or discrepancy, the Landlord's original copy of
the lease shall control.

     (k) Each provision hereof shall extend to and shall, as the case may
require, bind and inure to the benefit of the Landlord and the Tenant and their
respective heirs, legal representatives and successors, and assigns in the event
this lease has been assigned with the express, written consent of the Landlord.

     (l) If because of any act or omission of Tenant, its employees, agents,
contractors, or subcontractors, any mechanic's lien or other lien, charge or
order for the payment of money shall be filed against Landlord, or against all
or any portion of the Premises, or the Building of which the Premises are a
part, Tenant shall, at its own cost and expenses, cause the same to be
discharged of record, within thirty (30) days after the filing thereof, and
Tenant shall indemnify and save harmless Landlord against and from all costs,
liabilities, suits, penalties, claims and demands, including reasonable
attorneys' fees resulting therefrom.

     (m) It is understood and agreed that this Lease shall not be binding until
and unless all parties have signed it.

     (n) Landlord and Tenant, by execution of this Agreement, represent and
warrant to each other that they are duly organized and existing under applicable
laws as set forth hereinabove and are in good standing under such laws; and,
that each has the requisite legal authority to own and operate its properties
and assets, to carry on its business as presently conducted, and to execute this
Lease.

     (o) The provisions of this indenture shall be construed in accordance with
and governed by the laws of the state of North Carolina. References to this
Lease or this indenture shall refer to this document. Reference to Landlord or
Tenant, whenever consistent with the context of this Lease shall include the
plural or singular number, masculine, feminine or neuter gender. In the absence
of specific provisions to the contrary, the party upon whom an obligation is
imposed by this Lease shall perform the

37

obligation at its own expense. Paragraph headings relating to the contents of
particular paragraphs are inserted only for the purpose of convenience and are
not to be construed as parts of the particular paragraphs to which they refer.
All of the provisions of this Lease are to be construed as covenants and
agreements as though the words importing such covenants and agreements were used
in each paragraph.

29. Subordination

     (a) This Lease is subject and subordinate to each and every trust
indenture, deed of trust and mortgage (collectively the "Mortgages") which now
affects the Property, and the Building, and to all renewals, extensions,
supplements, amendments, modifications, consolidations, and replacements thereof
or thereto, substitutions therefor, and advances made thereunder. Landlord shall
employ its best efforts to obtain from the holder or holders of the Mortgages a
Non-Disturbance Agreement (as defined below). Tenant shall subordinate this
Lease to the lien of any subsequent mortgagee or lien holder and so long as
Tenant is not in default of this Lease, such subordination shall be conditioned
upon the delivery to Tenant of an agreement by mortgagee or lienholder that it
shall not disturb Tenant's possessory rights in the Premises (a "Non-Disturbance
Agreement").

     (b) If at any time prior to the expiration of the Term, any Superior Lease
shall terminate or be terminated for any reason, Tenant agrees, at the election
and upon demand of any owner of the Property or the Building, or the lessor
under any such Superior Lease, or of any mortgagee in possession of the Property
or the Building, to attorn, from time to time, to any such owner, lessor or
mortgagee, upon the then executory terms and conditions of this Lease, for the
remainder of the term originally demised in this Lease, provided that such
owner, lessor or mortgagee, as the case may be or receiver caused to be
appointed by any of the foregoing, shall not then be entitled to possession of
the Premises. The provisions of this subsection (b) shall enure to the benefit
of any such owner, lessor or mortgagee, shall apply notwithstanding that, as a
matter of law, this Lease may terminate upon the termination of any such
Superior Lease, and shall be self-operative upon any such demand, and no further
instrument shall be required to give effect to said provisions. Tenant, however,
upon demand of any such owner, lessor or mortgagee, agrees to execute, from time
to time, instruments in confirmation of the foregoing provisions of this
subsection (b), satisfactory to any such owner, lessor or mortgagee,
acknowledging such attornment and setting forth the terms and conditions of its
tenancy. Nothing contained in this subsection (b) shall be construed to impair
any right otherwise exercisable by any such owner, lessor or mortgagee.

30. Option to Renew

     Provided Tenant is not then in default under any of the terms, conditions
and covenants of this Lease, Tenant shall have the right and privilege, at its
election, to renew this Lease for one (1) further term of three (3) years (the
"Renewal Period") by giving Landlord written notice of its election to do so
(the "Election"), at any time on or before one hundred eighty (180)

38

days prior to the end of the then existing Term. Such renewals shall be on the
same terms and conditions (except for the Election) as herein provided for the
Primary Term, except that the minimum annual rent during such Renewal Periods
shall be at the prevailing market rate.

31. Right of First Offer.

     Provided Tenant is not in default and has performed all of its obligations
hereunder, Tenant shall have the first opportunity to lease approximately 18,157
square feet of space known as Suite 240 (the "Space") which Space is outlined on
the attached Exhibit "E". Upon notification in writing by Landlord of the
availability of the Space, Tenant shall have ten (10) days in which to elect in
writing to Lease the Space. Should Tenant elect to exercise this right of first
offer, the annual rental rate shall be at the prevailing market rate.

     Exhibits "A" through "E", are attached hereto and become part of this
lease.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have respectively signed and sealed this
lease as of the day and year first above written.

                                        LANDLORD:
                                        ONE TRIAD CENTER ASSOCIATES,

By: /s/ Illegible
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Partner

TENANT:
                                        ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Treasurer

CORPORATE SEAL

ATTEST: /s/ WAWise
        -----------------------------
        Asst. Secretary

39

FIRST AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE

     THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE is made this 9th day of March, 2000 by
and between LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Pennsylvania limited
partnership ("Landlord") and ANALOG DEVICES, INC., a Massachusetts corporation
having its principal place of business at One Triad Center, Greensboro, North
Carolina ("Tenant").

                                   BACKGROUND

     A. One Triad Center Associates, a North Carolina general partnership which
was Landlord's predecessor, and Tenant entered into an Office Lease dated
November 14, 1997 (the "Lease"), covering premises in the building located at
7736 McCloud Road in Greensboro, North Carolina known as "One Triad Center" (the
"Building"), which premises are more fully described in the Lease.

     B. Tenant desires (i) to increase the amount of space leased and (ii) to
extend the terra of the Lease. Subject to the provisions of this First
Amendment, Landlord has agreed to such increase in the space leased and to such
extension of the term. Accordingly, Landlord and Tenant desire to amend the
Lease.

     NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual promises
and covenants contained herein and in the Lease, and intending to be legally
bound hereby agree that, effective on the date hereof set forth above (the
"Effective Date"), the Lease is amended as follows:

     1. First Additional Space: Effective on April 1, 2000, the Premises as
defined in the Lease shall be expanded and increased to include the
approximately 6,000 square feet located on the second floor of the Building as
is outlined on the floor plan of such second floor attached hereto as Exhibit
A-1. Such additional space on the second floor of the Building shall be referred
to herein as the "First Additional Space". From and after April 1, 2000 until
July 31, 2000, the Premises leased under the Lease shall consist of the
approximately 23,734 square feet of space on the first floor of the Building
originally leased pursuant to the Lease (the "Original Premises") plus the
approximately 6,000 square feet of space on the second floor of the Building
constituting the First Additional Space.

     2. Second Additional Space: Effective on August 1, 2000, the Premises as
defined in the Lease shall be expanded and increased to include the
approximately 12,157 square feet located on the second floor of the Building as
is outlined on the floor plan of such second floor attached hereto as Exhibit
A-2. Such additional space on the second floor of the Building shall be referred
to herein as the "Second Additional Space." From and after August 1, 2000 until
the expiration of the Term, the Premises leased under the Lease shall consist of
the approximately 23,734 square feet of space, on the first floor of the
Building constituting the Original Premises, the approximately 6,000 square feet
of space on the second floor of the Building constituting the First Additional
Space, and the approximately 12,157 square feet of space on the second floor of
the Building constituting the Second Additional Space.

                                       40

3. Extension of Term: The term and duration of the Lease (for all of the
Premises including without limitation the Original Premises, the First
Additional Space and the Second Additional Space) shall extend to and including
December 31, 2002.

     4. Increases in Minimum Annual Rent: (a) Effective with the monthly
installment of annual rent due on April 1, 2000. and continuing to and including
the monthly installment of minimum annual rent due on June 1, 2000, the amount
of each of the monthly installments of minimum annual rent due from Tenant to
Landlord shall be increased to Forty Thou sand Eight Hundred Nine and 92/100
Dollars ($40,809.92).

          (b) Effective on July 1, 2000 and on August 1, 2000 and again on July
1, 2001, and July 1, 2002, the minimum annual rents due from Tenant to Landlord
shall be increased so that the minimum annual rents due under the Lease and the
monthly installments thereof shall be as follows:

(Inasmuch as Landlord and Tenant have agreed to the foregoing increases in the
minimum annual rents due under the Lease, the provisions of Section 2(b) of the
Lease are hereby deleted.)

          (c) The monthly installments of minimum annual rent due pursuant to
this Section 4 shall be in addition to the additional rental payments due
pursuant to Section 3 of the Lease and Section 5 of this Amendment with respect
to Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses.

     5. Estimated Additional Rent With Respect to Tenant's Share of Operating
Expenses and Taxes:

          (a) Landlord shall provide Tenant with a reconciliation of the
estimated additional rental payments made by Tenant during the calendar year
2000, if any, with the actual amount of Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses and
Taxes for the calendar year 2000. For the purposes of determining the actual
amount of Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes for the calendar year
2000, Tenant's Proportionate Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes shall be: (i)
33.28? for the period January 1, 2000 through March 31, 2000; (ii) 41.69% for
the period April 1, 2000 through July 31, 2000; and (iii) 58.74% for the period
August 1, 2000 through December 31, 2000.

          (b) For calendar years 2001 and beyond occurring during the term of
the Lease as extended hereby, Tenant shall pay to Landlord as additional rent
due with respect to Tenant's Proportionate Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes
the sums due pursuant to Section 3 of the Lease using 58.74% as Tenant's
Proportionate Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes.

41

For the purposes of computing the estimated monthly installments of additional
rent due for the calendar year 2001 from Tenant pursuant to Section 3 of the
Lease, Landlord may assess. Tenant an amount equal to 58.74% of the excess of
the actual Operating Expenses and Taxes for the entire Building for the calendar
year 2000 above the Base Year (1998) Operating Expenses and Taxes for the entire
Building.

     6. Refurbishment of First Additional Space & Second Additional Space;
Tenant Allowance: Tenant acknowledges and agrees that, except for the payment to
Tenant of the Tenant Allowance as provided for in this Section 6, Landlord is
under no duty to make repairs, alterations, improvements, refurbishments or
decorations to the First Additional Space or to the Second Additional Space and
that Tenant accepts the First Additional Space and the Second Additional Space
in their present "as is" condition. Landlord acknowledges and agrees that Tenant
desires to make certain non-structural alterations, refurbishments, and
improvements to the First Additional Space and the Second Additional Space.
Accordingly, Landlord and Tenant hereby agree as follows with respect to the
alterations, refurbishments and improvements to be made by Tenant to the First
Additional Space and the Second Additional Space:

          (a) Promptly following the execution of this First Amendment, Tenant
shall prepare and submit to Landlord for Landlord's approval which will not be
unreasonably withheld Tenant's plans and specifications detailing and showing
the alterations, refurbishments and improvements Tenant desires to make to the
First Additional Space and the Second Additional Space. Tenant shall not make
any alterations, refurbishments, or other improvements to the First Additional
Space or the Second Additional Space unless and until Tenant has obtained
Landlord's approval of the plans and specifications for such alterations,
refurbishments and other improvements. Landlord shall not be required to approve
any alterations, refurbishments or other improvements which would, in Landlord's
judgment, involve a structural change in the Building, adversely impact any
utility lines, communications lines, equipment or facilities in the Building
serving any tenant other than Tenant, or reduce the value of the Building or of
the Premises. The alterations, refurbishments, or other improvements to be made
by Tenant to the First Additional Space and the second Additional Space pursuant
to plans and specifications approved by Landlord shall be referred to herein as
the "Approved Alterations".

          (b) From and after the Effective Date of this Amendment until the
Premises are increased to include the First Additional Space and the Second
Additional Space as provided for herein, Landlord shall permit Tenant and
Tenant's approved contractors and agents reasonable access to the First
Additional Space and the Second Additional Space at such times as specified by
Landlord for the purposes of planning and completing the Approved Alterations.
Tenant's access to First Additional Space and to the Second Additional Space
pursuant to this provision shall be at Tenant's own risk, expense and
responsibility and shall be subject to such rules, restrictions and regulations
governing such access as Landlord may reasonably impose.

          (c) at least ten (10) days prior to commencement of the Approved
Alterations work, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a list of all contractors
with whom Tenant has contracted or intends to contract for the accomplishment of
the Approved Alterations together with a certificate of insurance for each of
Tenant's contractors evidencing adequate insurance coverage and naming Landlord
and Landlord's agent as additional insureds. All contractors engaged by

42

Tenant to perform the Approved Alterations are subject to Landlord's prior
approval which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

          (d) Landlord and its Agent shall have the right to conduct various
walk- through inspections of the First Additional Space and of the Second
Additional Space from time to time to determine the status of the Approved
Alterations.

          (e) Any warranties from Tenant's contractor(s) with respect to the
Approved Alterations shall be for the benefit of Landlord as well as Tenant and
Tenant shall deliver such warranties to Landlord upon receipt.

          (f) All construction work comprising the Approved Alterations shall be
done in a good and workmanlike manner, shall comply at the time of completion
with all laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and legal requirements applicable
thereto, and shall be accomplished promptly and in an expeditious manner. Tenant
shall be responsible for applying for and obtaining any and all governmental
permits and authorizations as may be necessary to accomplish the Approved
Alterations and Tenant shall accomplish the Approved Alterations in a manner so
as not to disturb or disrupt any other tenant or occupant of the Building.
Tenant shall deliver to Landlord upon Landlord's request copies of all permits
and licenses required to be issued by any governmental authority in connection
with Tenant's construction of the Approved Alterations as well as certificates
of occupancy or compliance upon the completion thereof.

          (g) Tenant shall pay promptly any contractors and materialmen who
supply labor, work or materials to Tenant with respect to the Approved
Alterations and shall take all steps permitted by law in order to avoid the
imposition of any mechanic's lien upon all or any portion of the Building or
upon the land upon which it is located. Should any such lien or notice of lien
be filed for work performed by Tenant, Tenant shall bond against or discharge
the same within five (5) days after Tenant has notice that the lien or claim is
filed regardless of the validity of such lien or claim. Nothing contained herein
is intended to authorize Tenant to do or cause any work to be done or materials
supplied for the account of the Landlord, all of the same to be sole for
Tenant's account and at Tenant's risk and expense. Except for the Tenant
Allowance to be paid by Landlord to Tenant as provided below, Tenant shall pay
all costs and expenses incurred by Tenant in completing and accomplishing the
Approved Alterations.

          (h) In order to reimburse Tenant for a portion of the costs incurred
by Tenant in completing the Approved Alterations, Landlord shall pay to Tenant
an allowance equal to the lesser of (i) $40,000 or (ii) the actual out of pocket
hard cots and expenses incurred by Tenant in completing the Approved
Alterations. (Such lesser amount shall be referred to herein as the "Tenant
Allowance".) Landlord shall disburse the Tenant Allowance to Tenant within
forty-five (45) days following Landlord's receipt from Tenant of a written
request for such disbursement provided that at the time such request is made the
following conditions shall have then been met: (I) the Approved Alterations
shall have been fully completed by Tenant in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by Landlord; (2) a certificate of compliance or of
occupancy shall have been issued with respect to at least the First Additional
Space by the appropriate governmental authority; (3) Tenant shall have occupied
at least the First Additional Space and shall continue in occupancy of the
Original Premises; (4) no event of default by Tenant shall

43

exist under the Lease; and (5) Tenant shall have paid all costs and expenses
incurred in connection with the Approved Alterations so that no liens for such
work may attach to the Building. Tenant shall submit to Landlord together with
Tenant's request for the disbursement of the Tenant Allowance copies of paid
invoices, receipts, and statements sufficient to verify the costs and expenses
incurred by Tenant in completing the Approved Alterations and from which the
amount of the Tenant Allowance can be determined together with such other
information about such costs and expenses as Landlord may reasonably request.

     7. Substitution of New Renewal Option. Section 30 of the Lease entitled
"Option to Renew" is deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted in
lieu thereof:

     Multiple Options To Extend Term (Fixed Amount Rental Increases). Provided
that Landlord has not given Tenant notice of default more than two (2) times
preceding the Expiration Date, and that there then exists no event of default by
Tenant under this lease nor any event that with the giving of notice and/or the
passage of time would constitute a default, Tenant shall have the right and
option to extend the Term for two (2) additional periods of thirty-six (36)
months each, exercisable by giving Landlord prior written notice, at least ten
(10) months in advance of the Expiration Date, of Tenant's election to extend
the Term; it being agreed that time is of the essence and that this option is
personal to Tenant and non-transferable to any assignee or sublessee. Such
extension shall be under the same terms and conditions as provided in this lease
except as follows:

          (a) the additional period shall begin on the Expiration Date and
thereafter the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be the third anniversary
thereof.

          (b) There shall be one additional extension option remaining after the
exercise of the first extension option and no further options to extend after
the exercise of the second extension option.

          (c) The Minimum Annual Rent payable by Tenant shall be in the
following amounts:

44

8. Substitution of New Expansion Option. Section 31 of the Lease entitled
"Right of First Refusal is deleted in its entirety and the following is
substituted in lieu thereof:

     Additional Contiguous Space. If and when the space which is contiguous to
the Premises which is shown as "Expansion Space" on Exhibit A-2 (the "Expansion
Space") first becomes avail able for rental during the term of this lease and
provided that Landlord has not given Tenant notice of default more than two (2)
times during the immediately preceding twelve (12) months, and that there then
exists no event of default by Tenant under this lease nor any event that with
the giving of notice and/or the passage of time would constitute a default,
Tenant shall have the right: of first offer to lease all of the Expansion Space,
subject to the following:

     (a) Landlord shall notify Tenant when the Expansion Space first becomes
available for rental by any party other than the tenant then in occupancy of the
Expansion Space and Tenant shall have seven (7) days following receipt of such
notice within which to notify Landlord in writing that Tenant is interested in
negotiating terms for leasing such Expansion Space and to have its offer
considered by Landlord prior to the leasing by Landlord of the Expansion Space
to a third party. If Tenant notifies Landlord within such time period that
Tenant is so interested, then Landlord and Tenant shall have 30 days following
Landlord's receipt of such notice from Tenant within which to negotiate mutually
satisfactory terms for the leasing of the Expansion Space by Tenant and to
execute an amendment to this lease incorporating such terms or a new lease for
the Expansion Space.

     (b) If Tenant does not notify Landlord within such 7 days of its interest
in leasing the Expansion Space or if Tenant does not execute such amendment or
lease within such 30 (lays, if applicable, then this right of first offer to
lease the Expansion Space will lapse and be of no further force or effect and
Landlord shall have the right to lease all of part of the Expansion Space to any
other party at any time on any terms and conditions acceptable to Landlord.

     (c) This right of first offer to lease the Expansion Space is a one-time
right if and when the Expansion Space first becomes available, is personal to
Tenant, and is nontransferable

     9. No Brokers: Tenant represents and warrants to Landlord that Tenant has
not been represented by any real estate agent or broker in connection with the
negotiation or execution of this First Amendment and that no real estate agent
or broker is entitled to a commission with respect to this First Amendment as
the result of any agreement or action of Tenant. In the event that any real
estate agent or broker claims or asserts that it is entitled to a commission
with respect to this First Amendment based upon any agreement with Tenant or any
action of Tenant, Tenant shall indemnify, defend and hold Landlord harmless with
respect to such claim or assertion.

45

10. Reaffirmation of Lease: Except as expressly modified herein, the terms
and conditions of the Lease shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
All attached exhibits referred to herein are made a part of this Amendment and
the Lease. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Lease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Amendment as of
the day and year first above written.

                                        LANDLORD:
                                        LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                        By: Liberty Property Trust, Sole
                                            General Partner

By: /s/ Lawrence D. Gildea
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Lawrence D. Gildea
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

TENANT:
                                        ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: William A. Martin
                                        Title: Treasurer

Attest: /s/ WA. Wise
                                                --------------------------------
                                        Name: WA. Wise
                                        Title: Corp. Counsel

46

SECOND AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE

     THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE is made this 25th day of March. 2002
by and between LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Pennsylvania limited
partnership ("Landlord") and ANALOG DEVICES, INC., a Massachusetts corporation
having its principal place of business at One Triad Center, Greensboro, North
Carolina ("Tenant").

                                   BACKGROUND

     A. One Triad Center Associates, a North Carolina general partnership which
was Landlord's predecessor, and Tenant entered into an Office Lease dated
November 14, 1997 (the "Lease"), covering premises in the building located at
7736 McCloud Road in Greensboro, North Carolina known as "One Triad Center" (the
"Building"), which premises are more fully described in the Lease.

     B. In accordance with the First Amendment to the Lease, Tenant (i)
increased the amount of space leased to a total of 41,891 rentable square feet
and (ii) extended the term of the Lease through December 31, 2002. Subject to
the provisions of the First Amendment, Landlord agreed to such increase in the
space leased and to such extension of the term.

     C. In lieu of exercising its option to extend the term of the Lease
pursuant to Section 30 of the Lease, Tenant desires to extend the term of the
Lease by way of this Amendment. Subject to the provisions of this Second
Amendment, Landlord has agreed to such extension of the term. Accordingly,
Landlord and Tenant desire to amend the Lease.

     NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual promises
and covenants contained herein and in the Lease, and intending to be legally
bound hereby agree that, effective on the date hereof set forth above (the
"Effective Date"), the Lease is amended as follows:

     1. Extension of Term: The term and duration of the Lease (for all of the
Premises including without limitation the Original Premises, the First
Additional Space and the Second Additional Space as detailed in the First
Amendment for a total of 41,891 rentable square feet) shall extend to and
including December 31, 2005.

     2. Minimum Annual Rent: Effective on January 1, 2003 the minimum annual
rents due from Tenant to Landlord shall be so that the minimum annual rents due
under the Lease and the monthly installments thereof shall be as follows through
December 31, 2005:

The monthly installments of minimum annual rent due pursuant to this
Section 2 shall be in addition to the additional rental payments due pursuant to
Section 3 of the Lease and Section 5 of the First Amendment with respect to
Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses.

47

3. Estimated Additional Rent With Respect to Tenant's Share of Operating
Expenses and Taxes:

          Tenant shall pay to Landlord as additional rent due with respect to
Tenant's Proportionate Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes the sums due
pursuant to Section 3 of the Lease using 58.74% as Tenant's Proportionate Share
of Operating Expenses and Taxes.

     4. Acceptance of Premises. Tenant accepts the space in its present "as is"
condition.

     5. Automatic Renewals. Section 30 of the Lease entitled "Option to Renew,"
as amended by Section. 7 of the First Amendment, is deleted in its entirety and
the following is substituted in lieu thereof:

     Automatic Term Renewals (Fixed Amount Rental Increases). The term of this
Lease shall automatically be extended for an additional period of twenty-four
(24) months terminating on December 31, 2007 (the "First Renewal Term") unless
Tenant shall provide Landlord written notice, at least six (6) months in advance
of, the Expiration Date, of Tenant's election not to extend the term. In
addition, the term of this Lease, as extended by the First Renewal Term, shall
automatically be extended for an additional period of thirty-six (36) months
terminating on December 31, 2010 (the "Second Renewal Term") unless Tenant shall
provide Landlord written notice. at least six (6) months in advance of the
Expiration Date, as extended by the First Renewal Term, of Tenant's election not
to extend the term. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord may nullify Tenant's
right to extend the term as herein provided by written notice to Tenant during
the six (6) month period prior to the Expiration Date, as extended, in the event
that Landlord has given Tenant notice of default more than two (2) times
preceding the Expiration Date or there exists an event of default by Tenant
under this Lease or any event that with the giving of notice and/or the passage
of time would constitute a default. Landlord and Tenant agree that time is of
the essence and the renewal options are personal to Tenant and nontransferable
to any assignee or sublessee. The First Renewal Term and Second Renewal Term
shall be under the same terms and conditions as provided in this lease except as
follows:

     (a) The First Renewal Term shall begin on the Expiration Date and
thereafter the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be the second anniversary
thereof.

     (b) The Second Renewal Term shall begin on the Expiration Date, as extended
by the First Renewal Term, and thereafter the Expiration Date shall be deemed to
be the third anniversary thereof.

     (c) There shall be no options to extend or renew the term remaining after
the expiration of the Second Renewal Term.

48

(d) The Minimum Annual Rent payable by Tenant shall be in the following
amounts:

                               First Renewal Term

Second Renewal Term

6. Amendment of Expansion Option. Section 31 of the Lease entitled "Right
of First Refusal," as amended by Section 8 of the First Amendment, is hereby
deleted and the following substituted in lieu thereof:

     Additional Space. If and when all or any part of the space shown as
"Expansion Space" on Exhibit A-2 (the "Expansion Space") first becomes available
for rental during the term of this lease and provided that Landlord has not
given Tenant notice of default more than two (2) times during the immediately
preceding twelve (12) months, and that there then exists no event of default by
Tenant under this lease nor any event that with the giving of notice and/or the
passage of time would constitute a default, Tenant shall have the right of first
offer to lease all of the Expansion Space available for rental at such time,
subject to the following:

     (a) Landlord shall notify Tenant when all or a part of the Expansion Space
first becomes available for rental by any party other than the tenant then in
occupancy of the Expansion Space (the "Available Expansion Space") and Tenant
shall have fourteen (14) days following receipt of such notice within which to
notify Landlord in writing that Tenant is interested in negotiating terms for
leasing such Available Expansion Space and to have its offer considered by
Landlord prior to the leasing by Landlord of the Available Expansion Space to a
third party. If Tenant notifies Landlord within such time period that Tenant is
so interested, then Landlord and Tenant shall have sixteen (16) days following
Landlord's receipt of such notice from Tenant within which to negotiate mutually
satisfactory terms for the leasing of the Available Expansion Space by Tenant
and to execute an amendment to this lease incorporating such terms or a new
lease for the Available Expansion Space.

     (b) If Tenant does not notify Landlord within such fourteen (14) days of
its interest in leasing the Available Expansion Space or if Tenant does not
execute such amendment or lease within such sixteen (16) days, if applicable,
then this right of first offer to lease the Available Expansion Space will lapse
and be of no further force or effect and Landlord shall have the right to lease
all of part of the Available Expansion Space to any other party at any time on
any terms and conditions acceptable to Landlord.

49

(c) This right of first offer to lease the Expansion Space is a one-time
right if and when the Expansion Space first becomes available, is personal to
Tenant, and is nontransferable; provided if only part of the Expansion Space
becomes available for rental, Tenant's failure to exercise its right to lease
such part of the Expansion Space shall not constitute a waiver of its right to
lease the remaining portion of the Expansion Space pursuant to this Section 31
at such time as the remaining Expansion Space becomes available.

     7. HVAC Service: The first two full sentences of Section 5(c) of the Lease
are hereby deleted and the following substituted in lieu thereof:

     "Landlord shall furnish heat, ventilation and air-conditioning to the
Premises, Monday through Friday from 6:30 A.M. to 6:30 P.M., and on Saturday
from 6:30 A.M. to 1:00 P.M., legal holidays excepted. Heat and air-conditioning
required by Tenant at times other than those mentioned above shall be supplied
upon reasonable prior notice to Landlord at the rate of $30.00 per hour."

     8. No Brokers: Tenant represents and warrants to Landlord that Tenant has
not been represented by any real estate agent or broker in connection with the
negotiation or execution of this Second Amendment and that no real estate agent
or broker is entitled to a commission with respect to this Second Amendment as
the result of any agreement or action of Tenant. In the event that any real
estate agent or broker claims or asserts that it is entitled to a commission
with respect to this Second Amendment based upon any agreement with Tenant or
any action of Tenant, Tenant shall indemnify, defend and hold Landlord harmless
with respect to such claim or assertion.

     9. Reaffirmation of Lease: Except as expressly modified herein, the terms
and conditions of the Lease shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
All attached exhibits referred to herein are made a part of this Amendment and
the Lease. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Lease.

[SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE]

50

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Amendment as of
the day and year first above written.

                                        LANDLORD:
                                        LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                        By: Liberty Property Trust, Sole General
                                            Partner

By: /s/ Lawrence D. Gildea
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Lawrence D. Gildea
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

TENANT:
                                        ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: William A. Martin
                                        Title: Treasurer

Attest:

                                        Name: /s/ Michael Ferdenzi
                                        Title: Corporate Facilities Manager /
                                               Real Estate

51

THIRD AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE

     THIS THIRD AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE is made this 21st day of June, 2005 by
and between LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Pennsylvania limited
partnership ("Landlord") and ANALOG DEVICES, INC., a Massachusetts corporation
having its principal place of business at One Triad Center, Greensboro. North
Carolina ("Tenant").

                                   BACKGROUND

     A. One Triad Center Associates, a North Carolina general partnership which
was Landlord's predecessor, and Tenant entered into an Office Lease dated
November 14, 1997 (the "Lease"), covering premises in the building located at
7736 McCloud Road in Greensboro, North Carolina known as "One Triad Center" (the
"Building"), which premises are more fully described in the Lease.

     B. In accordance with the First Amendment to the Lease, Tenant (i)
increased the amount of space leased to a total of 41,891 rentable square feet
and (ii) extended the term of the Lease through December 31, 2002. Subject to
the provisions of the First Amendment, Landlord agreed to such increase in the
space leased and to such extension of the term.

     C. In lieu of exercising its option to extend the term of the Lease
pursuant to Section 30 of the Lease, Tenant extended the term of the Lease,
through December 31, 2005, by way of the Second Amendment. Subject to the
provisions of the Second Amendment, Landlord agreed to such extension of the
term.

     D. Tenant now desires to modify the terms of the option to extend the term
of the Lease as noted in the Second Amendment, and Landlord has agreed to such
modification. Accordingly, Landlord and Tenant desire to amend the lease by way
of this Third Amendment.

     NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual promises
and covenants contained herein and in the Lease, and intending to be legally
bound hereby agree that, effective on the date hereof set forth above (the
"Effective Date"), the Lease is amended as follows:

     1. Section 5 of the Second Amendment is deleted and replaced with the
following:

     Automatic Term Renewals (Fixed Amount Rental Increases). The term of this
Lease shall automatically be extended for an additional period of twenty-seven
(27) months terminating on March 31, 2008 (the "First Renewal Term") unless
Tenant shall provide Landlord written notice, at least three (3) months in
advance of the Expiration Date (which is no later than September 30, 2005), of
Tenant's election not to extend the term. In addition, the term of this Lease,
as extended by the First Renewal Term, shall automatically be extended for an
additional period of thirty-six (36) months terminating on March 31, 2011 (the
"Second Renewal Term") unless Tenant shall provide Landlord written notice. at
least six (6) months in advance of the Expiration Date (which is no later than
September 30, 2007). as extended by the First Renewal Term, of Tenant's election
not to extend the term. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord may nullify
Tenant's right to extend the term as herein provided by written notice to Tenant
during the six (6) month period prior to the Expiration Date, as extended, in
the event that Landlord has given Tenant notice of default more than two (2)
times preceding the Expiration Date or there

52

exists an event of default by Tenant under this Lease or any event that with the
giving of notice and/or the passage of time would constitute a default. Landlord
and Tenant agree that time is of the essence and the renewal options are
personal to Tenant and non-transferable to any assignee or sublessee. The First
Renewal Term and Second Renewal Term shall be under the same terms and
conditions as provided in this lease except as follows:

     (a) The First Renewal Term shall begin on the Expiration Date and
thereafter the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be the second anniversary
thereof.

     (b) The Second Renewal Term shall begin on the Expiration Date, as extended
by the First Renewal Term, and thereafter the Expiration Date shall be deemed to
be the third anniversary thereof.

     (c) There shall be no options to extend or renew the term remaining after
the expiration of the Second Renewal Term.

     (d) The Minimum Annual Rent payable by Tenant shall be in the following
amounts:

                                    First Renewal Term

Second Renewal Term

53

[SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE]

54

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Amendment as of
the day and year first above written.

                                        LANDLORD:
                                        LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                        By: Liberty Property Trust, Sole
                                            General Partner

By: /s/ Lawrence D. Gildea
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Lawrence D. Gildea
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

TENANT:
                                        ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                               ---------------------------------

Attest:

                                        Name: /s/ Michael Ferdenzi
                                        Title: CORP REAL ESTATE

55

(LIBERTY PROPERTY TRUST LOGO)

November 29, 2005

Mr. Jim Hrycaj
Analog Devices, Inc.
7910 Triad Drive
Greensboro, NC 27409

RE: FOURTH AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE DATED OCTOBER 26, 2005 FOR PREMISES
    LOCATED AT 7736 MCCLOUD ROAD, GREENSBORO, NC 27409 BETWEEN LIBERTY PROPERTY
    LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AS ("LANDLORD") AND ANALOG DEVICES, INC. AS ("TENANT")

Dear Jim:

This is to confirm the following with respect to the Fourth Amendment to Office
Lease:

As set forth in the Lease, Minimum Annual Rent and Annual Operating
Expenses are due on or before the Commencement Date for the period from the
Commencement Date until the first day of the next calendar month unless the
Commencement Date is the first day of the calendar month. Accordingly, the
following amounts are due on or before the Commencement Date:

Thereafter, commencing February 1, 2006, regular monthly payments will be
due on the first in the following amounts until adjusted in accordance with the
Lease:

If you disagree with any of the information set forth above, please advise
us in writing within five days of your receipt of this letter; otherwise the
Commencement Date and the Expiration Date of the Lease will be as set forth
above.

                                        Sincerely,

                                        LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                        By: Liberty Property Trust, Sole General
                                            Partner

By William M. Flippin
                                           -------------------------------------
                                        Title: City Manager

Cc: Michael Ferdenzi
Cc: Mike Tierney

Enhancing people's lives through extraordinary work environments

                      WWW.LIBERTYPROPERTY.COM - NYSE; LRY

   FLORIDA - ILLINOIS - MARYLAND - Michigan - Minnesota - New Jersey - North
Carolina - Pennsylvania - South Carolina - Texas - Virginia - Wisconsin - United
                                    Kingdom

56

FOURTH AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE

          THIS FOURTH AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE IS made 24th day of October,
2005 by and between LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Pennsylvania limited
partnership ("Landlord") and ANALOG DEVICES, INC., a Massachusetts corporation
having its principal place of business at One Triad Center, Greensboro, North
Carolina ("Tenant").

                                   BACKGROUND

     A. One Triad Center Associates a North Carolina general partnership which
was landlord's predecessor, and Tenant entered into an Office Lease dated
November 14, 1997 (the -Original Lease"), covering premises in the building
located AT 7736 McCloud Road in (Greensboro, North Carolina known as "One 'triad
Center" (the "Building"), which premises are pore fully described in the
Original Lease as amended as set forth below.

     B. Landlord acquired the Building from One Triad Center Associates and
thereafter Landlord and Tenant entered into a First Amendment. to Office Lease
dated March 9. 2000 by which the Landlord and tenant agreed to amend the
Original Lease, among other things, to increase the size of the Premises leased
to Tenant and to extend the term of the Original Lease to and including December
31, 2002 (the "First Amendment").

     C. Subsequent to the execution of the First Amendment, Landlord and Tenant
entered into a Second Amendment to Office I &rise dated March 25, 2002 by which
the Original Lease was further amended, among other things, to extend the term
thereof through and including December 31, 2005 (the -Second amendment").

     D. Subsequent to the execution of the Second Amendment, Landlord and tenant
entered into a Third Amendment to Office Lease dated June 21. 2005 by which the
provisions of the Second Amendment which provided for an automatic renewal of
the term of the Lease were modified (the -Third Amendment"). (As used herein,
the term "Lease- shall mean the Original Lease as amended by the First
Amendment, the Second Amendment and the third Amendment.)

     E. Tenant has provided a notice to Landlord that Tenant has elected, not to
extend the min of the Lead: pursuant to the automatic renewal provisions thereof
as provided for in the Third Amendment. Nonetheless, Landlord and Tenant have
agreed to extend the term of the Lease for a period of twenty-seven (27)
additional months beyond the current expiration date of the Lease (which is
December 31,, 2005) and Landlord and Tenant desire by this Fourth Amendment to
Office Lease to set forth their agreements with respect to the extension of the
lean 01-11 the Lease,

     NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto. in consideration of the mutual promises
and covenants contained herein and in the. Lease, and intending to be legally
bound hereby, agree that, effective on the date hereof set forth above (the
"Effective Date"), the Lease is amended as

57

1. Extension of Term: The term and duration of the Lease (for all of the
Premises including without limitation the Original Premises, the First
Additional Space and the Second Additional Space as detailed in the First
Amendment and consisting of 41,891 rentable square feet) is hereby extended to
and including March 31, 2008.

     2. Minimum Annual Rent During Extended 'term: From the date hereof until
December 31, 2005, Tenant shall continue to pay monthly installments of minimum
annual rent mid payments of Tenant's Proportionate Share of Operating Expenses
and Taxes in the amounts and in the manner as are currently provided for in the
Lease. Effective with the monthly installment of minimum annual rent due on
January I, 2006 and continuing through the remainder- of the term of the Lease
as extended hereby, the minimum annual rents and the monthly installments
thereof shall be as follows;

Such monthly installments of minimum annual rent shall be due and payable on the
first day of each calendar month commencing on January 1, 2006 and continuing
through and including March 1, 2008 Tenant shall pay Tenant's Share of Operating
Expenses and Taxes for the calendar year 2005 when and as such payment is due
under the Lease unaffected by the provisions of this Fourth Amendment. Tenant
shall not be obligated to pay any amount for Tenant's Share of Operating
Expenses and Taxes for the calendar year, 2006 and for calendar year 2006 the
installment payments of minimum annual rent as set forth above shall include
whatever share of the Operating Expenses and Taxes for 2006 for which Tenant is
responsible. Furthermore, Landlord agrees that calendar year 2006 shall
constitute a new 'Base Year" under the i.ea5e for the purpose of computing
Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses and Taxes due with respect to periods from
and after December 31, 2006, Accordingly, for and with respect to each calendar
year Or the term of the Lease commencing with the year 2007, there shall be due
from Tenant as additional rent due under the Lease Tenant's Share of the excess
of the Operating Expenses and Taxes for such year over the total of the
Operating Expenses and Taxes for the year 2006. Such additional rent shall be
computed and paid in the manner as provided for in Section 3 of the Original
Tease except that the Base Year shall be 2006 instead of 1998 and Tenant's Share
of such excess Operating Expenses and taxes shall be 58,74% of the total
thereof.

     "AS IS, WHERE IS": Tenant acknowledges and agrees that it has agreed to
extend the term of the Lease as provided herein with the Premises in their "AS
IS WHERE IS" condition mid that Landlord has not agreed to make and Landlord
shall not he obligated to make any improvements or refurbishments of the
Premises in order to induce Tenant to extend the term of the Lease as provided
herein.

     Renewal Option: Landlord and Tenant acknowledge and agree that the
automatic renewal provisions as set fourth in the Third Amendment arc no longer
elective inasmuch as Tenant elected not to extend the term of the Lease as
provided therein. Accordingly, Section 1

58

of the Third Amendment and Section 5 of the Second Amendment are hereby deleted
from the Lease. From and after the Effective Date hereof, the Lease shall he
amended to provide to Tenant the following renewal option which shall bean lien
of tiny and all other renewal rights or options currently provided in the Lease
and which shall be deemed to replace and supersede Section 30 of the Original
Lease and Section 7 of the First Amendment.

     Option TO Extend Teem, Provided that there then exists no event of default
by Tenant under this lease which has continued beyond any applicable notice and
cure periods, tenant shall have the right and option to extend the term for one
(I) additional period of Thirty-Six (36) months, exercisable by giving Landlord
prior written notice, at least six (6) months in advance of the Expiration Date,
of Tenant's election to extend the term; it being agreed that time s of the
essence. Such extension shall be under the same terms and conditions as provided
in this lease except as follows!

     (a) the additional period (referred to herein as the 'Additional Period")
shall begin on the Expiration Date as set forth herein (that is, March 31, 2008)
and thereafter the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be Thirty-Six (36) months
after such Expiration Date (that is. March 31, 2011):

     (b) all references to the term in this lease shall be deemed to mean the
term as extended pursuant to this Section: and

     (c) the Minimum Annual Rent payable by Tenant for such, Additional Period
shall be the then current Market Rental Rate for like buildings in the Airport
submarket of Greensboro, North Carolina for such Additional Period. For the
purposes hereof "Market Rental Rate- shall be defined as the minimum annual base
rentals that would be agreed to after arms length negotiations by a landlord and
a new tenant, each of whom is willing and informed, but neither of whom is
compelled, to enter into the lease transaction for premises comparable to the
}'remises for a lease term equal to the Additional Period and taking into
account all aspects of the Premises, including the then physical condition of
the Premises, the then current market conditions for computing escalations and
adjustments to hose annual rents, operating expense pass-throughs provisions,
inducements and concessions customary in a new lease and other relevant economic
factors of a new lease. Promptly following Tenants exercise of this renewal
option, Landlord shall notify 'tenant of the rental rates that Landlord contends
to be the Market Rental Rates applicable during the Additional Period. If Tenant
does not object to Landlord's determination of the Market Rental Rates in
writing within thirty (30) days of Landlord's notice, then Landlord's
determination of the Market Rental Rates shall be deemed conclusive. if Tenant
objects in writing to Landlord's determination of the Market Rental Rates within
thirty (30) days of Landlord's notice, then the parties will attempt to agree
upon such Market Rental Rate. If Landlord and Tenant are unable to agree upon
the Market Rental Rate for the Additional Period prior to that date which is one
hundred twenty (120) days prior to the commencement of the Additional Period,
then the Market Rental Rate shall be determined by an arbitration proceeding
conducted in accordance with the rules of American Arbitration Association for
Commercial Real Estate disputes. The arbitration shall be conducted in
Greensboro, North Carolina. The cost of arbitration shall he shared equally by
Landlord and Tenant. If the Market Rental Rate has not been finally determined
prior to the commencement of the Additional Period, then upon the

59

commencement of the Additional Period, Tenant shall begin paying rents in the
amounts as set forth in Landlord's last offer to Tenant until such Market Rental
Rate is finally determined. If such Market Rental Rate as finally determined is
less than the rate at which rents have been paid by Tenant during the Additional
Period from the commencement thereof until the determination Of the Market
Rental Rate. then Landlord shall either refund to Tenant the amount of such
overpayment or credit the amount of such overpayment to subsequent installments
of rent. If the Market Rental Rate as finally determined is more that the rate
at which rents have been paid by tenant during the Additional Period from the
commencement thereof until the determination of the Market Rental Rate, then
Tenant shall pay to Landlord an amount equal to the excess within fifteen (15)
days of the determination of the Market Rental Rate.

     5. No Expansion Rights. Landlord and Tenant hereby agree that from and
after the Effective Date, Tenant shall not have any rights or options to expand
the Premises to include any additional space. Accordingly, any and all
provisions of the existing Lease granting to Tenant any right to expand the
Premises or obligating Landlord to offer additional expansion, space to the
Tenant are hereby deleted.

     6. No Brokers: Tenant represents and warrants to Landlord that Tenant has
not been represented by any real estate agent or broker in connection with the
negotiation or execution of this Fourth Amendment except David Hagan of Hagan
Properties Incorporated ("Tenant's Broke") and that no real estate agent or
broker other than Tenant's Broker is entitled to a commission with respect to
this Fourth Amendment as the result of any agreement or action of Tutuila In the
event that any real estate agent or broker other than Tenant's Broker claims or
asserts that it is entitled to a commission with respect to this Fourth
Amendment based upon any agreement with Tenant or any action of Tenant. Tenant
shall indemnify, defend and hold 1 And lo rd harmless with respect to such claim
or assertion. Landlord recognizes Tenant's Broker as Tenant's real estate agent
in connection with the extension of the term of the Lease provided for herein
and Landlord agrees to pay a commission to Tenant's Broker pursuant and subject
to a separate agreement between Landlord and Tenant's Broker providing for such
commission.

     7. Reaffirmation of Lease: except as expressly modified herein, the terms
and conditions of the Lease shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Capitalized terms used herein and no otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Lease.

60

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Fourth Amendment
to Office Lease as of the day and year first above written.

                                        LANDLORD:
                                        LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

By: /s/ Lawrence D. Gildea
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Lawrence D. Gildea
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

'TENANT:
                                        ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: William A. Martin
                                        Title: Treasurer

61

</EX-10.38>

<EX-21>
 8
 b63086adexv21.txt
 EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

.
                                                                               .
                                                                               .
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
                              As of October 28, 2006

STATE OR OTHER
                                                                 JURISDICTION OF
                                                                 INCORPORATION OR
           NAME OF SUBSIDIARY                                      ORGANIZATION
- ------------------------------------------------------          ------------------
                                                               
Analog Devices Limited                                             United Kingdom
Analog Devices, GmbH                                               Germany
Analog Devices, SAS                                                France
Analog Devices, K.K.                                               Japan
Analog Devices ApS                                                 Denmark
AudioAsics A/S                                                     Denmark
Analog Devices A.B. *                                              Sweden
Analog Devices SRL                                                 Italy
Analog Devices, GMBH                                               Austria
Analog Devices Korea, Ltd.                                         Korea
Integrant Technologies, Inc.                                       Korea
Analog Devices, B.V.                                               The Netherlands
Analog Devices Holdings, B.V.                                      The Netherlands
Analog Devices Nederland, B.V.                                     The Netherlands
Analog Devices (Philippines), Inc.                                 The Philippines
Analog Devices Gen. Trias, Inc.                                    The Philippines
Analog Devices Realty Holdings, Inc. (40% owned)                   The Philippines
Analog Devices Taiwan, Ltd.                                        Taiwan
Analog Devices Hong Kong, Ltd.                                     Hong Kong
Analog Devices Pty, Ltd.                                           Australia
Analog Devices Australia Pty. Ltd.                                 Australia
Analog Devices India Private Limited                               India
ChipLogic India Private Limited                                    India
Analog Devices Ireland, Ltd.                                       Ireland
Analog Devices International Financial Services Limited            Ireland
Analog Research & Development Ltd.                                 Ireland
Analog Nominees Limited                                            Ireland
Analyzed Investments, Ltd.                                         Ireland
Edinburgh Portable Compilers Limited                               Scotland
Analog Devices Israel, Ltd.                                        Israel
Analog Development (Israel) 1996 Ltd.                              Israel
Analog Devices (China) Co. Ltd.                                    China
Analog Devices Canada, Ltd.                                        Canada
Analog Devices S.L.                                                Spain
Analog Devices IMI, Inc.                                           California
Analog Devices ChipLogic, Inc.                                     California
Staccato Systems, Inc.                                             California
Analog Devices Foundry Services, Inc.                              Delaware
Analog Devices Asian Sales, Inc.                                   Delaware
ADI Micromachines, Inc.                                            Delaware
Analog/ NCT Supply Ltd. (50% owned)                                Delaware
Analog Devices International, Inc.                                 Massachusetts

* Also doing business as Analog Devices Aktiebolag, Suomen sivuliike

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 b63086adexv23.txt
 EX-23 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

EXHIBIT 23

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 Nos. 2-63561, 2-90023, 2-95495, 33 2502, 33-4067, 33-22604, 33-22605,
33-29484, 33-39851, 33-39852, 33-43128, 33-46520, 33-46521, 33-60642, 33-60696,
33-61427, 33-64849, 333-04771, 333-04819, 333-04821, 333-08493, 333-40222,
333-40224, 333-47787, 333-47789, 333-48243, 333-56529, 333-57444, 333-69359,
333-79551, 333-87055, 333-50092, 333-53314, 333-53828, 333-75170, 333-113510 and
333-132409, and Form S-3 Nos. 333-08505, 333-08509, 333-17651, 333-87053,
333-48928, 333-51530 and 333-53660) of Analog Devices, Inc. and in the related
Prospectuses of our reports dated November 16, 2006, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements and schedule of Analog Devices, Inc., Analog
Devices, Inc. management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Analog Devices, Inc., included in this Annual Report
(Form 10-K) for the year ended October 28, 2006.

                                     /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
November 16, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 b63086adexv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATION 

I, Jerald G. Fishman, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Analog Devices, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Dated: November 20, 2006  
     /s/ Jerald G. Fishman

Jerald G. Fishman  

President and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 b63086adexv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATION 

I, Joseph E. McDonough, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Analog Devices, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Dated: November 20, 2006  
     /s/ Joseph E. McDonough

Joseph E. McDonough  

Vice President-Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 b63086adexv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
As Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Analog Devices, Inc. (the  Company ) for the
period ended October 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned, Jerald G. Fishman, Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that, to my knowledge:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: November 20, 2006  
     /s/ Jerald G. Fishman

Jerald G. Fishman  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 b63086adexv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
As Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Analog Devices, Inc. (the  Company ) for the
period ended October 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned, Joseph E. McDonough, Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that, to my knowledge:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: November 20, 2006   
     /s/ Joseph E. McDonough

Joseph E. McDonough  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

