<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061129_10-K_edgar_data_4828_0001104659-06-078255_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2441809</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>358545</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1446330</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>60</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-078255.hdr.sgml : 20061129
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061129092943
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-078255
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061129
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061129

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR CO /MN/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000004828
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS [2060]
		IRS NUMBER:				840004720
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	033-83868
		FILM NUMBER:		061243707

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 N 3RD ST
		CITY:			MOORHEAD
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			56560
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6122028110

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 NORTH THIRD STREET
		CITY:			MOORHEAD
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			56560

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QtAG8o79GYlHpg/JCAHTdGcAtGz3An1+nZbTtLt7anjV3V8wpxkSveVTwEL/c+5Q
 JZ4frc9qBgij6+U/cafSuA==

 0001104659-06-078255.txt : 20061129

10-K
 1
 a06-24441_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

Commission File   

   Nos.   33-83868; 333-11693 and
333-32251 

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:  

  NONE  

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:  

  NONE  

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. Yes   o   No  x  

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Act. Yes   o   No  x  

Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes    x 
No  o  

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   x  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer.  See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  

  (Check one) Large
accelerated filer   o     Accelerated
filer  o     Non-accelerated filer  x  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes   o  No  x  

As of November 15, 2006, 2,874 shares of the Registrant s Common
Stock and 498,570 shares of the Registrant s Preferred Stock were
outstanding.  There is no established
public market for the Registrant s Common Stock or Preferred Stock.  Although there is a limited, private market
for shares of the Registrant s stock, the Registrant does not obtain
information regarding the transfer price in transactions between its members
and therefore is unable to estimate the aggregate market value of the
Registrant s shares held by non-affiliates.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE   

  NONE  

PART I   

   This report contains forward-looking statements and
information based upon assumptions by the American Crystal Sugar Company s
management, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the
Company.  These forward-looking
statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as  expects ,
 believes ,  will  or similar verbs or expressions.  If any of management s assumptions prove
incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Company s actual
results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking
statements.  The differences could be
caused by a number of factors or combination of factors, including, but not
limited to, those factors influencing the Company and its business which are
described in this report in the  Risk Factors  section below.  Readers are urged to consider these factors
when evaluating any forward-looking statement. 
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements
in this report to reflect future events or developments.   

   Item 1.                                            BUSINESS 

   GENERAL   

  The Company is a Minnesota agricultural cooperative
corporation owned by approximately 2,900 sugarbeet growers in the Minnesota and
North Dakota portions of the Red River Valley. 
The Red River Valley is the largest sugarbeet growing area in the United
States, forming a band approximately 35 miles wide on either side of the North
Dakota and Minnesota border and extending approximately 200 miles south from
the border of the United States and Canada. 
The Company was organized in 1973 by sugarbeet growers to acquire the
business and assets of the American Crystal Sugar Company, then a publicly held
New Jersey corporation in operation since 1899. 
The Company currently processes sugarbeets from a base level of
approximately 500,000 acres in the Red River Valley (the Red River Valley
Crop), subject to tolerances for over-planting and under-planting established
by the Board of Directors each year.  By
owning and operating five sugarbeet processing facilities in the Red River
Valley, the Company provides its shareholders with the ability to process their
sugarbeets into sugar and agri-products such as: molasses; sugarbeet pulp; and
by-products of the molasses desugarization process, betaine and concentrated
separated by-product (CSB).  

  The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Sidney Sugars Incorporated (Sidney Sugars), owns two sugarbeet processing
facilities.  The Company processes the
sugarbeets from approximately 40,000 acres grown by non-member growers at the
Sidney, Montana, facility.  The
Torrington, Wyoming, facility has been leased on a long-term basis to another
sugar producer.  

  The
Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Crab Creek Sugar Company (Crab
Creek), controls the long-term production of sugar at a sugarbeet processing
facility at Moses Lake, Washington. 
Neither Crab Creek nor the Company currently operates or intends to
operate the Moses Lake facility.  

  The Company is the controlling member of ProGold
Limited Liability Company (ProGold), which owns a corn wet-milling plant in
Wahpeton, North Dakota, that is currently being leased to Cargill,
Incorporated.  

  The Company and Newcourt Capital USA own Crystech, LLC
(Crystech), which owns the molasses desugarization facility adjacent to the
Company s processing facility in Hillsboro, North Dakota.  

  The Company s sugar marketing agent, United Sugars
Corporation (United), is a cooperative owned by the Company, Minn-Dak Farmers
Cooperative and United States Sugar Corporation.  The Company s agri-products are marketed
through a marketing agent, Midwest Agri-Commodities  

2     

Company (Midwest).  Midwest is a cooperative owned by the
Company, Minn-Dak Farmers Cooperative, Southern Minnesota Beet Sugar
Cooperative and Michigan Sugar Company.  

   Operating
Segments   

  The Company has identified
two reportable operating segments: Sugar and Leasing.  The sugar segment is engaged primarily in the
production and marketing of sugar from sugarbeets.  It also sells agri-products and sugarbeet
seed.  The leasing segment is engaged in
the leasing of a corn wet milling plant used in the production of high-fructose
corn syrup.  For financial information by
segment see Note 12 of  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   Principal
Products Produced   

  The Company is engaged
primarily in the production and marketing of sugar from sugarbeets.  Total sugar sales accounted for 88.5 percent,
88.1 percent and 88.7 percent of the Company s consolidated total revenues for
the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  United Sugars Corporation, the Company s
sugar marketing agent, sells sugar primarily to industrial users such as
confectioners, breakfast cereal manufacturers and bakeries.  For the fiscal year ended August 31,
2006, 86.6 percent (by weight) of the sugar was sold to industrial users.  The remaining portion is marketed by United
Sugars Corporation through sugar brokers to wholesalers and retailers under the
 Crystal Sugar  and various private labels for household consumption.  With regard to brand name sales, the Company
licenses the use of the  Crystal  trademark to United Sugars Corporation.  

  The largest
proportion of United Sugars Corporation s sugar sales are contracted one or
more quarters in advance.  

  The Company also sells
agri-products such as: molasses; sugarbeet pulp; betaine and concentrated
separated by-product (CSB), by-products of the molasses desugarization process;
and sugarbeet seed.  Substantially all of
the Company s agri-products are marketed through Midwest Agri-Commodities Company,
a common marketing agency.  Sugarbeet
pulp is marketed to livestock feed mixers and livestock feeders in the United
States and foreign markets.  The majority
of the Company s pulp production is exported to Japan and Europe.  The market for sugarbeet pulp is affected by
the availability and quality of competitive feedstuffs and foreign exchange
rates.  Sugarbeet molasses is marketed
primarily to yeast manufacturers, livestock feed mixers and livestock feeders.  Total agri-product sales accounted for 8.2
percent of the Company s consolidated total revenues during fiscal 2006, of
which export agri-product sales accounted for 3.8 percent of such
revenues.  In the past, agri-products
sales accounted for 8.2 percent and 7.8 percent of the Company s consolidated
total revenues in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively, while agri-product
export sales accounted for 4.3 percent and 3.7 percent of the Company s total
revenues in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively.  

  There is no single
customer of United Sugars Corporation or Midwest Agri-Commodities Company
attributable to the Company that accounts for 10 percent or more of the
revenues of the Company.  

  The Company s total
annual sugar and agri-product production is influenced by the amount and the
quality of sugarbeets grown by its members and non-members, the processing
capacity of the Company s plants, by its ability to store harvested sugarbeets
and by government programs and regulations.  

   Raw
Materials   

  The Company purchases all
of its Red River Valley sugarbeets from members under contract with the
Company.  All members have five-year
contracts with the Company covering the growing seasons of 2003 through
2007.  These five-year contracts
automatically renew for additional five-year  

3     

terms unless terminated
by one of the parties at the end of the current term.  In addition, each member has an annual
contract with the Company specifying the number of acres the member is
obligated to grow during that year.  Each
share of Preferred Stock held by a member requires that member to grow one acre
of sugarbeets for sale to the Company. 
The Company s Board of Directors has the discretion to adjust the
acreage that is required to be planted for each share of Preferred Stock held
by the members.  The Board of Directors intends
to maintain the relationship between shares of Preferred Stock and acres of
sugarbeet production at a ratio as close to 1 to 1 as possible, subject to
tolerances for over-planting and under-planting established by the Board each
year and reductions or increases caused by the Company s marketing allocations
established by the USDA.  The Board of Directors and management
continue to review and determine the relationship between the ownership of
Preferred Stock and acreage planting.  

  The gross beet payment is the value of recovered sugar
from the sugarbeets a member delivers plus the member s share of agri-product
revenues, minus the member s share of member business operating costs.  The following allowances, costs and
deductions, if applicable, are used to adjust the gross beet payment to arrive
at the net beet payment: hauling program allowance and costs, pre-pile quality
premium and costs, tare incentive premium/penalty program, late harvest program
costs and unit retains.  Members are paid
a hauling allowance based on the distance they must transport sugarbeets for
delivery to the Company and may also receive an allowance for early delivery of
sugarbeets prior to the commencement of the stockpiling of harvested
sugarbeets.  The costs of these programs
are shared among members on the basis of the net tonnage of sugarbeets
delivered by each member.  

  Under current contracts, payments to members for
sugarbeets must be made in at least three installments: (i) on or about
November 15, the Company pays its members an amount equal to 65 percent of
the Company s estimate of the member s net beet payment; (ii) on or about
March 31, the Company pays an amount, which combined with the
November payment, equals 90 percent of the member s estimated net beet
payment; (iii) and not more than 15 days after completion and acceptance
of the audit of the Company s annual consolidated financial statements, the
Company pays the remainder of the member s net beet payment.  Except for unit retains, the Company must pay
to its members for their sugarbeets all proceeds from the sale of the members 
sugar and agri-products in excess of related member business operating costs,
as described above.  

  All of the sugarbeets
processed at the Sidney, Montana, factory are purchased from non-member growers
under contract with Sidney Sugars.  Each
non-member grower has an annual contract with Sidney Sugars specifying the
number of acres the non-member grower is obligated to grow during each year.  

  The price per ton of
sugarbeets paid to the growers who deliver to Sidney Sugars (the Scale Payment)
is determined according to the sugarbeet payment scale contained in the grower
contract and is calculated based on Sidney Sugars  average net return for sugar
from that year s crop and the adjusted average sugar content of each grower s
sugarbeets.  

  Under current grower
contracts between Sidney Sugars and its growers, payments to these growers for
sugarbeets must be made in three installments following delivery of the crop:
(i) in November, Sidney Sugars pays the growers an amount equal to 65
percent of the estimated Scale Payment for that year s crop; (ii) in
April, Sidney Sugars pays an amount, which combined with the
November payment, equals 90 percent of the estimated Scale Payment for
that year s crop; (iii) and in October, Sidney Sugars pays the remainder
of the actual Scale Payment.  

   Seasonality   

  The period during which the Company s plants are in
operation to process sugarbeets into sugar and agri-products is referred to as
the  campaign.   During the campaign, the
Company s factories  

4     

operate
twenty-four hours per day, seven days per week. 
In the Red River Valley, the campaign typically begins in September and
continues until the available supply of sugarbeets has been depleted, which
generally occurs in May of the following year.  Based on current processing capacity, an
average campaign lasts approximately 250 days, assuming normal crop
yields.  In Sidney, Montana, the campaign
also begins in September and lasts approximately 170 days.  

  The sales of sugar and agri-products occur ratably
throughout the year with modest increases in sugar sales occurring prior to
holiday seasons.  

   Sales
Backlog   

  The backlog of any unfilled sales orders at August 31,
2006 and 2005, was not material to the Company.  

   Market
and Competition   

  Current United States government statistics estimate
total United States sugar consumption at approximately 193 million
hundredweight for the year beginning October 1, 2005 and ending
September 30, 2006.  For the same
period ending September 2005, total consumption was approximately 190
million hundredweight.  Comparing the two
years shows an increase in demand of approximately one percent.  

  The United States refined sugar market has grown over
the past twenty years, despite the demand lost to the substitution of high
fructose corn syrups for sugar in beverages and certain food products.  Non-nutritive sweeteners such as aspartame
have also been developed to substitute for sugar.  Corn sweeteners and non-nutritive sweeteners
constitute a large portion of the overall sweetener market.  The Company believes that the United States
market for sugar will reflect minimal increases or be relatively flat in the
near future.  

  The United States sugar industry has been subject to
industry consolidation.  Today there are
fewer than 10 sugar sellers,   with
approximately 70 percent of United States sugar market share concentrated in
the top three sellers.  The Company s
sugar production and sales represent approximately 15 percent of the total
domestic market for refined sugar in 2005/2006. 
The Company had the right to market, or to have marketed on its behalf,
approximately 32 million hundredweight of sugar from the 2005 crop.  Sugar sales by United Sugars Corporation, the
Company s marketing agent, represent approximately 23 percent of the United
States sugar market.  

  United Sugars Corporation s main competitors in the
domestic market are Imperial Sugar Corporation, Amalgamated Sugar Company, The
American Sugar Refining Company and Western Sugar Cooperative.  Because sugar is a fungible commodity,
competition in the United States industry is primarily based upon price,
customer service and reliability as a supplier. 
United Sugars Corporation is currently the second largest marketer of
sugar in the United States.  

   Government
Programs and Regulations   

   Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of
2002   

  The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002
(the Farm Bill) was enacted on May 13, 2002. 
The Farm Bill contains several provisions related to the domestic sugar
industry, with the ultimate goal of such provisions to achieve balance and
stability in the U.S. sugar market while minimizing the cost to the Federal
government.  The Farm Bill applies to the
2002 through 2007 crop years.  Generally,
the Farm Bill restricts imports of foreign sugar, maintains the previous
non-recourse loan program, and establishes a system of marketing allocations
for sugarbeet and sugar cane producers in an attempt to balance the supply and
demand for sugar in the U.S. domestic sugar market.  

5     

Under the Farm Bill, sugar processors can borrow funds
on a non-recourse basis from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), with
repayment of such funds secured by sugar. 
When the price of sugar drops below the forfeiture price, the processors
can forfeit the sugar securing the loans to the CCC in lieu of repayment.  Processors may also obtain CCC loans for  in-process 
sugar or syrups at 80 percent of the loan rate.  

  The USDA has historically maintained sugar prices
above the forfeiture price without cost to the U.S. Treasury by regulating the
supply of sugar in the U.S. market through regulating the quantity of sugar
imports.  Under the Tariff Rate Quota
(TRQ) implemented October 1, 1990, sugar producing countries are allowed to
export a fixed quantity of sugar into the United States duty-free or subject to
minimal duties.  Unlimited additional
quantities may be exported to the United States upon payment of a tariff of
15.36 cents per pound prior to shipment. 
To date, only immaterial quantities of sugar have been imported under
this higher tariff level.  

  The Farm Bill sets an 18 cent per pound loan rate for
raw cane sugar and a 22.90 cent per pound loan rate for refined beet
sugar.  Both loan rates were effective
for the 2005 year crop.  

  In order to reduce the risk of sugar forfeitures to
the CCC and to provide balance in the marketplace, the Farm Bill establishes
annual flexible marketing allotments for both cane and beet sugar
processors.  The USDA determines the
overall allotment quantity (OAQ) for the U.S. domestic sugar market for each
crop year by estimating sugar consumption, adding stocks expected to be carried
into the succeeding year, and then subtracting 1,532,000 short tons, raw value
of sugar (the maximum level of imports allowed before marketing allotments are
expected to be suspended if the imports would lead to a reduction of the
overall allotment quantity), and subtracting carry-in stocks of sugar,
including CCC inventory.  Once the USDA
has determined the OAQ for a crop year, it then determines each allotment for
beet and cane sugar by multiplying the OAQ by 54.35 percent for beet and 45.65
percent for cane.  An individual
processor s allocation of the allotment for a crop year is determined by
formula set forth in the Farm Bill. 
Sugarbeet processor allocations are based on each sugar processor s
sugar production history, while sugar cane processor allocations are based on
past marketings, ability to market and past processings.  The USDA annually establishes individual
processor s allocations.  The Company s
marketing allocations for the 2005, 2004 and 2003 crops were approximately 32
million hundredweight, 33 million hundredweight and 32 million hundredweight,
respectively, while the marketing allocation for the 2006 crop is currently set
at approximately 34 million hundredweight.  

  Under the Farm Bill, a processor may market sugar in
excess of its allocation if such sales (i) enable another processor to meet its
allocation, (ii) facilitate the export of sugar or (iii) are made for nonhuman
consumption.  The USDA can assess a
penalty equal to three times the U.S. market value of any quantity of sugar
marketed in excess of a processor s allocation. 
The Farm Bill and its related regulations do not allow marketing
allocations to be traded among processors. 
The Farm Bill does, however, provide for the transfer of allocations
associated with a particular processing facility in the event ownership of the
facility is transferred.  

  The marketing allotments and allocations set forth
under the Farm Bill affect the sugar processed from the 2002 crop through the
2007 crop.  On an annual basis, the
marketing allotments, and the corresponding allocation to the Company, will
determine the amount of sugar the Company can sell into the domestic
market.  The Company s allocation may
reduce the amount of sugar the Company can market for a given year, thus
reducing the number of acres of sugarbeets required for processing.  

   North American Free Trade Agreement   

  Under the terms of the original North American Free
Trade Agreement (NAFTA )  text, Mexico
would have been allowed to ship any excess production of sugar into the United
States if Mexico were to achieve net surplus producer status two years in a
row.  Concerned that Mexico s productive  

6     

capabilities and possible
conversion to the use of high fructose corn sweeteners could quickly change
Mexico from a net sugar importer to a net sugar exporter, the U.S. sugar
industry insisted that NAFTA be modified to delay Mexico s access to the U.S.
market.  To embody these modifications, a
side letter agreement on sugar was negotiated by the United States and Mexico
prior to passage of NAFTA.  The side
letter agreement gives Mexico incrementally larger but capped volumes of
duty-free access to the U.S. market, and an ability to export additional
quantities of sugar to the United States if Mexico pays a gradually descending
second tier tariff.  The side letter
agreement establishes a common market between the United States and Mexico in
sugar by January 1, 2008.  

  The government of Mexico has indicated that it does
not agree that the side letter agreement to NAFTA is binding, and has filed a
NAFTA Article XX challenge to the United States  implementation of the side
letter agreement.  At this time, it is
not known when, or if, a ruling will be received on the Article XX
challenge.  If the side letter agreement
to the NAFTA is ruled to be invalid, the Company could be materially and
adversely affected.  

  The Company is concerned that low world sugar prices
and a trade conflict between the United States and Mexico over sweeteners could
permit de facto acceleration of the second tier tariffs under the side letter
agreement.  Under the NAFTA tariff
schedule, second tier sugar tariffs were set at approximately 12 cents for 2000
and decline by approximately 1.5 cents per year until reaching zero in
2008.  Low world raw sugar prices and the
current second tier tariff make it economically viable for Mexican sugar to
enter the United States this year, if the Mexican interests so choose.  

  Under the current terms of the NAFTA and the side
letter agreement, the Company is concerned that imports from Mexico could
oversupply the U.S. market, forcing sugar prices significantly lower.  The Company, along with the domestic sugar
industry, is seeking negotiated changes to the NAFTA and may also pursue legal
remedies to address the matter.  If the
sugar industry is unsuccessful in these or any other endeavors it pursues to
prevent the influx of Mexican sugar into the U.S. market, there could be
adverse financial consequences to the Company and its members.  

   Dominican Republic - Central American Free
Trade Agreement   

  The
Dominican Republic - Central American Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) was
signed into law on August 2, 2005 and is anticipated to be implemented later in
2006.  As a result, the Company expects
an increase in the amount of sugar that will be imported into the United
States.  The impact of this trade
agreement on the Company cannot be fully assessed at this time.  It is possible, however, that the trade agreement
could have a material adverse effect on the Company through a reduction in
acreage that can be planted by the Company s shareholders and by the growers
for Sidney Sugars, and/or a reduction in sugar selling prices, and a
corresponding reduction in the beet payment to the shareholders and the Company s
earnings.  The magnitude of the impact
cannot be determined at this time.  

   Regional and Bilateral Free Trade Agreements   

  The
United States government is pursuing an aggressive agenda on international trade.  It is seeking to negotiate new free trade
agreements with a number of countries and regions that are major producers of
sugar.  The Company believes these
agreements, if they reach fruition, could negatively impact the Company s
profitability.  The primary agreements
under consideration that affect sugar, to the Company s knowledge, are the
Andean Free Trade Agreement; the Thailand Free Trade Agreement; the U.S.-Panama
Free Trade Agreement; and the Association of Southeastern Nations Free Trade
Agreement.  Many of the countries
included in these agreements are major sugar producers and exporters.  If increases in guaranteed access or
reductions in sugar tariffs are included in these agreements, excess sugar from
these regions could enter the U.S. market and put pressure on domestic sugar
prices.  

7     

Portions of these agreements
have been completed.  Within the Andean
Free Trade Agreement, the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement was signed on
April 12, 2006.  The U.S.-Colombia
Free Trade Agreement is also nearing completion.  The Company expects that these two trade
agreements will be brought before Congress for a vote in 2007.  

  The Doha Round negotiations
of the World Trade Organization have stalled and it is unclear at this time
when they will be revived.  If the
negotiations begin again, the outcome could have serious consequences for the
Company.  

  The U.S. sugar industry and
the Company, as an influential member of such industry, recognize the potential
negative impact that would result if these agreements are entered into by the
United States and are taking steps to attempt to manage the situation.  The Company and the sugar industry intend to
continue to focus significant attention on trade issues in the future.  

   The impact of the various
trade agreements on the Company cannot be assessed at this time due to the
uncertainty concerning the terms of the agreements and whether they will
ultimately be implemented.  It is
possible, however, that the passage of various trade agreements could have a
material adverse effect on the Company through a reduction in acreage that can
be planted by the Company s shareholders and by the growers for Sidney Sugars,
and/or a reduction in sugar selling prices, and a corresponding reduction in
the beet payment to the shareholders and the Company earnings.   Although the magnitude of the impact
cannot be determined at this time, the Company estimates that for every 500,000
tons of sugar entering the U.S. market and therefore reducing the OAQ (and
assuming no other variables change), the Company may need to reduce planted
acres by approximately 40,000, which would negatively impact shareholder
profits.  

   Employees   

  As of October 1, 2006, the Company had   1,301
full-time employees, of which 1,055 were hourly and 246 were salaried.  The Company had 5 part-time employees.  In addition, the Company employs
approximately 787 hourly seasonal workers, approximately 354 during the
sugarbeet harvest and approximately 433 during the remainder of the sugarbeet
processing campaign.    During the sugarbeet harvest, the
Company also contracts with third party agencies for approximately another
1,300 additional workers.  

  Substantially all of the hourly employees at the
Company s factories, including full-time and seasonal employees, are
represented by the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers
(BCTGM) AFL-CIO, and are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring
July 31, 2011 for the Red River Valley factory employees and April 30,
2008 for the Sidney, Montana, factory employees.  Office, clerical and management employees are
not unionized, except for certain office employees at the Moorhead and
Crookston, Minnesota, and Hillsboro, North Dakota, factories who are covered by
the collective bargaining agreement with the BCTGM.  The Company considers its employee relations
to be good.  

   Environmental
Matters   

  The Company is subject to extensive federal and state environmental
laws and regulations with respect to water and air quality, solid waste
disposal and odor and noise control.  The
Company conducts an on-going program designed to meet these environmental laws
and regulations.  The Company believes
that it is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations.  The Company cannot predict
whether future changes in environmental laws or regulations  

8     

might increase
the cost of operating its facilities and conducting its business.  Any such changes could have adverse financial
consequences for the Company.  

   The Company s East Grand
Forks, Minnesota factory has recently experienced hydrogen sulfide emissions
from its water treatment ponds that have exceeded permissible limits.  The Company is working with the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and is aggressively addressing the situation.  While the Company may be assessed penalties
and/or fines related to this occurrence, as of the date of this report none
have been assessed.  Any potential
penalties and/or fines are not expected to be material to the Company.  Capital expenditures will be required to
prevent future occurrences of the emissions. 
 The Company s fiscal 2007 budget includes capital expenditures of
approximately $4.0 million at 
the East Grand Forks factory to address this situation. The amount and timing
of any additional capital expenditures that may be required is not currently
known. 

  In addition to the
amount discussed above for the East Grand Forks factory, the Company s fiscal
2007 budget also includes capital expenditures of approximately $1.0 million
for environmentally related projects at the Company s other factory locations.  

   Available
Information   

  The Company s corporate headquarters are located at
101 North Third Street, Moorhead, Minnesota 56560, telephone number
(218) 236-4400.  The Company s
fiscal year ends August 31.  The
Company s website is www.crystalsugar.com. 
The Company files annual, quarterly and periodic reports with the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  These reports can be accessed by selecting  Links 
on the Company s website or electronic or paper copies can be obtained free of
charge upon request.  In addition, the
Company s reports may be read or copied at the SEC Public Reference Room at 450
Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. 
The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov
that contains reports and other information filed electronically about the
Company.  

   Item 1A.                                    RISK
FACTORS  

  The risks described below together with all of the other
information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered
carefully.  The risks and uncertainties
described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not
the only ones facing the Company.  If any
of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or
results of operations would likely suffer. 
In that case, the beet payments made to our shareholders may decrease,
the value of the Company s common and preferred stock could fall, and a
shareholder could lose all or part of their investment.  

   If we do
not continue to minimize our operating expenses, we may not be able to compete
effectively in our industry.   

  Our strategy involves, to a substantial degree,
maximizing profitability by continuing to control operating expenses. In
furtherance of this strategy, we have engaged in ongoing, company-wide
efficiency activities intended to increase productivity and reduce costs.  These activities have included realigning and
streamlining our operations and optimizing the efficiency of our production
facilities.  We cannot assure you that
our continued efforts will result in our continued or increased profitability.  

   While we believe that we
currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed
to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate
controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

9  

As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public
companies to include a report of management on the Company s internal control
over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an
assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting.  In addition,
the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the Company s
financial statements must attest to and report on management s assessment of
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.  When we are required to
comply, the Company plans to conduct a rigorous review of our internal control
over financial reporting in order to assure compliance with the Section 404
requirements.  However, if our
independent auditors interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related
rules and regulations differently from us or if our independent auditors are
not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the
level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may decline to
attest to management s assessment or issue a qualified report.  Additionally, if we are not able to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely
manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or
investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC.  

   An
oversupply of sugar could adversely affect the price of sugar and our results
of operations.   

  The domestic sugar market is reactive to any
oversupply of refined sugar.  Many
factors can lead to an oversupply of sugar. 
Excess supply may result in a decline in domestic sugar prices.  Lower sugar prices directly impact
profitability of selling refined sugar in the United States.  If the selling price of sugar decreases, our
revenues will decrease which will result in a direct negative impact on our
profitability.  

   Unregulated
foreign competition could result in an oversupply of sugar which could decrease
the price of sugar and impact our business.   

  Under the current terms of the NAFTA and other
government regulations, imports of sugar from Mexico may enter the U.S.
market.  These imports could oversupply
the U.S. market and negatively affect the price of sugar.  We, along with the domestic sugar industry,
are seeking improvements to NAFTA and are also pursuing legal remedies to
address the matter.  If the sugar
industry is unsuccessful in these and any other endeavors it pursues to prevent
the influx of Mexican sugar into the U.S. market, we could experience adverse
financial consequences which would in turn be experienced by our members.  

   Regional and bilateral trade
agreements could result in an increase in the amount of sugar available in the
United States sugar market which may impact our business.   

  The United States government has been engaged in
regional and bilateral trade negotiations with countries that produce
sugar.  If the United States government
enters into bilateral trade agreements with sugar producing countries, the
amount of sugar in the domestic sugar market could increase.  A change in the supply of sugar could put
pressure on the price of sugar, which would impact our profitability.  

   The
success or failure of our business is linked to certain government programs,
regulations and legislation that may change in the future.   

  The nature and scope of future legislation and
regulation affecting the sugar market and industry cannot be predicted.  The current price supports and market
protections for sugar in place may not continue in their present forms.  If the price support programs were eliminated
in their entirety, or if certain protections the federal government provides
from foreign competitors were materially reduced, the amount of sugar we can
sell, the amount of sugarbeets we can process and the price for which we can
sell our sugar may be impacted, which could reduce the profitability of our
business.  If legislation or government
programs change, we may not be able to adopt strategies that would allow us to
compete  

10     

effectively in a greatly
changed domestic market for sugar and the adverse effects could negatively
impact the desirability of growing sugarbeets for delivery to us for
processing, our financial results, and our continued viability.  

   Changes
in the Farm Bill may change our results of operations or require a change in
our strategic plans.   

  The impact of changes to the Farm Bill on our
operations cannot be completely predicted. 
The long term ramifications of the current marketing allotment and
allocation program depend on our ability to maintain our marketing allocation
on an annual basis and to obtain access, if necessary, to additional
allocations at a reasonable price.  Any
changes in the Farm Bill may impact our business.  We cannot predict the changes to the Farm
Bill or the impact such changes will have at this time.  

   If we are unable to compete in the sweetener
market, our operating results may suffer.   

  Sugar is a fungible commodity with competition for
sales volume based primarily upon customer service, price and reliability,
though differences in proximity to various geographic markets within the United
States result in differences in freight and shipping costs which in turn
generally affect pricing and competitiveness. 
The overall sweetener market, in addition to sugar, includes corn-based
sweeteners, such as regular and high fructose corn syrups, and non-nutritive,
high-intensity sweeteners such as aspartame. 
Differences in functional properties and prices have tended to define
the use of these various sweeteners. 
Although the various sweeteners are not interchangeable in all
applications, the substitution of other sweeteners for sugar has occurred in
certain products, such as soft drinks. 
We cannot predict the availability, development or potential use of
these and other alternative sweeteners and their possible impact on us or our
members.  We believe that we possess the
ability to compete successfully with other producers of sugar in the United
States.  In spite of this competitive
advantage, substitute products and sugar imports could reduce the demand for
sugar which could lower the price of sugar, resulting in a change to our
operations in the future.  

   Our
operations are sensitive to energy prices.   

  The prices we pay for energy
related products, such as natural gas, coal and coke, have been volatile and
may continue to be volatile.  We use
substantial amounts of these products in our manufacturing process.  We believe that the prices for energy related
products including natural gas, coal and coke will continue to be volatile and
higher than historical levels.  Higher
energy prices may also increase the costs of many goods and services we
acquire.  These higher prices may
materially increase our cost of production, thus impacting our financial
results.  

   Quantity and quality of
sugarbeets is sensitive to weather and other factors such as seed varieties.   

  The sugarbeet, as with most other crops, is affected
by many factors, including seed varieties and weather conditions during the
growing season.  Additionally, the
quantity of sugarbeets to be processed and weather conditions during the
processing season affect our ability to store sugarbeets held for
processing.  Growing and storage
conditions different from what we predict or expect may change the quantity and
quality of sugarbeets available for processing and therefore may affect the
quantity of the sugar we produce.  

  A significant increase in the quantity or quality of
sugarbeets harvested due to good weather conditions or improved seed varieties
could result in an unpredictably large quantity of sugarbeets to be
processed.  If we are required to process
a larger than anticipated quantity of sugarbeets we may experience increased
per unit processing cost or a decrease in production which in turn would have
an adverse financial consequence to us and our members.  A significant reduction in the quantity or
quality of sugarbeets harvested resulting from adverse weather conditions,
disease or other factors could result  

11     

in increased per unit processing
costs and decreased production, with adverse financial consequences to us and
our members.  

  In order to manage the quantity and quality of
sugarbeets that are harvested or available for processing, our Grower Contract
allows for a reduction in the number of acres to be planted at the beginning of
a crop year or harvested at the end of a crop year.  Up through the 2005 crop year, we had not
instituted or required a reduction in the number of acres harvested at the end
of a crop year.  Due to the estimated
large size of the 2006 crop, we instituted an eight percent reduction in the
number of acres harvested by members in order to manage the quantity and
quality of the sugarbeets that we have available for processing.  In anticipation of an ever increasing
quantity of sugarbeets per acre, we may be required to reduce the planting
tolerances set at the beginning of a crop year. 
If we are unable to manage the quantity and quality of sugarbeets
available for processing, we could experience adverse financial consequences
that would impact both us and our members.  

   Item
2.                                            PROPERTY
AND PROCESSING FACILITIES 

  The Company operates five sugarbeet processing
factories in the Red River Valley and one in Sidney, Montana.  The Company owns all of its factories and the
land on which they are located.  The
factories range in size from 150,000 to 400,000 square feet.  These properties are used in the Company s
sugar segment.  

  The location and
processing capacity of the Company s factories are:  

Each of the processing
factories includes the physical facilities and equipment necessary to process
sugarbeets into sugar.  Each factory has
space for sugarbeet storage, including ventilated storage sites.  The Red River Valley factories also have cold
storage facilities.  Each of these
factories is currently operating at or near its capacity.  The Company owns a molasses desugarization
(MDS) plant at its East Grand Forks facility and owns 50 percent of Crystech
which owns the MDS plant adjacent to the Hillsboro factory.  The MDS plants process molasses to extract
additional sugar.  The Company has sugar
packaging facilities located at the Moorhead, Hillsboro, Crookston, East Grand
Forks and Sidney factories.  

  The Company also owns a sugarbeet processing plant in
Torrington, Wyoming.  The Torrington,
Wyoming, facility is leased on a long-term basis to another sugar company.  

  ProGold Limited Liability Company owns a corn
wet-milling plant in Wahpeton, North Dakota, that is currently being leased to
Cargill, Incorporated.  The corn
wet-milling plant is capable of processing corn to produce corn sweeteners
(including high fructose corn syrups) and various agri-products.  This property is used in the Company s
leasing segment.  

  The Company s corporate office is located in a 30,000
square foot, two-story office building in Moorhead, Minnesota.  The Company also has a 100,000 square foot
Technical Services Center situated on approximately 200 acres in Moorhead,
Minnesota.  The Company owns both
facilities.  The Company also owns
numerous sites as sugarbeet receiving and storage stations located within
proximity  

12     

of their factories.  Substantially all non-current assets are
mortgaged or pledged as collateral for its indebtedness to various financial
institutions.  

   Item
3.                                            LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS 

  From time to time and in the ordinary course of its
business, the Company is named as a defendant in legal proceedings related to
various issues, including worker s compensation claims, tort claims and
contractual disputes.  The Company is
currently involved in certain legal proceedings which have arisen in the
ordinary course of the Company s business. 
The Company is also aware of certain other potential claims which could
result in the commencement of legal proceedings.  The Company carries insurance which provides
protection against certain types of claims. 
With respect to current litigation and potential claims of which the
Company is aware, the Company s management believes that (i) the Company
has insurance protection to cover all or a portion of any judgments which may
be rendered against the Company with respect to certain claims or actions and
(ii) any judgments which may be entered against the Company and which may
exceed such insurance coverage or which may arise in actions involving
potential liabilities not covered by insurance policies are not likely to have
a material adverse effect upon the Company, or its assets or operations.  

  Four administrative
proceedings were brought against the United States Department of Agriculture
(USDA) seeking reversal of prior decisions regarding the determination and
transfer of sugar marketing allocations made by the USDA.  While the Company was not a party to any of
these administrative proceedings, it was, solely or in coordination with other
sugar processors, an intervenor in those administrative proceedings.  Each of these proceedings has completed the
administrative process and the decisions by the chief judicial officer of the
USDA in each were such that the Company would not experience a reduction in its
marketing allocations.  Any decision made
by the chief judicial officer of the USDA can be further appealed in federal
court.  An appeal of one of the decisions
was subsequently filed by another company. 
If the decision by the chief judicial officer in this case is
overturned, it could result in the Company experiencing a reduction in
marketing allocations equal to the loss of approximately 25,000 acres in future
crop years assuming no other related factors were to change.  

  The outcome of any contested
matter is never certain and the eventual decisions in the matters identified
above may result in a reduction of the Company s marketing allocations which
would adversely impact the amount of sugar the Company could produce and
market.  

   Item
4.                                            SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

  No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company s
shareholders during the quarter ended August 31, 2006.  

   PART II   

   Item 5.                                            MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER  MATTERS  

  As of August 31, 2006, the Company had 2,874 shares of
the Common Stock and 498,570 shares of the Preferred Stock issued and
outstanding.  There is no established
public market for the Company s Common Stock or Preferred Stock, as such shares
may be held only by farmer-producers who are eligible for membership in the
Company.  The Company s shares are not
listed for trading on any exchange or quotation system.  Although transfers of the Company s shares
may occur only with the consent of the Board of the Directors, the Company does
not obtain information regarding the transfer price in connection with such
transfers.  As a result, the Company is
not able to provide information regarding the prices at which the Company s
shares have been transferred.  

13     

Because the number of acres of sugarbeets a member may
grow for sale to the Company is directly related to the number of shares of
Preferred Stock owned, a limited, private market for Preferred Stock
exists.  It is not anticipated that a
general public market for the Company s shares of Common Stock or Preferred
Stock will develop due to the limitations on transfer and the various
membership requirements which must be satisfied in order to acquire such
shares.  

  A member desiring to sell his or her Common Stock or
Preferred Stock must first offer them to the Company for purchase at par
value.  If the Company declines to
purchase such shares, either class may be sold to a new member (i.e., another
farm operator not already a member) and Preferred Stock may be sold to one or
more existing members or farm operators approved for membership, in each case
subject to approval by the Board of Directors. 
To date, the Company s Board of Directors has not exercised the Company s
right of first refusal to purchase preferred shares offered for sale by its
members.  Because the Company does not
require parties seeking approval for transfers to provide information regarding
the transfer price, the Company does not possess verifiable information
regarding the transfer price involved in recent transfers of the Company s
Preferred Stock.  

   Item 6.                                            SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA 

  The selected financial data of the Company should be
read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related
notes included in Appendix A of this Report.  

(1)              Net
Proceeds are the Company s gross revenues, less the costs and expenses of
producing and marketing sugar, agri-products and sugarbeet seed, but before
payments to members for sugarbeets. 
Payments to be made to members for the delivery of sugarbeets are
liabilities of the Company.  (For a more
complete description of the calculation of Net Proceeds, see  Item 1.  Business   Raw Materials. ) 

  (2)              Calculated
by dividing the Company s long term debt, exclusive of the current maturities
of such debt, by members  investments. 

  (3)              Information
for a fiscal year relates to the crop planted and harvested in the preceding
calendar year (e.g., information for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006
relates to the crop of 2005).  Crop data
for fiscal years 2003 through 2006 reflect the combined data of the Red River
Valley crop and the Sidney crop.  Fiscal
year 2002 reflects Red River Valley crop data only. 

14     

Item 7.                 MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

   The following discussion of the
financial conditions and results of operations of the Company should be read in
conjunction with the Company s consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto included in Appendix A of this report.   

   Liquidity
and Capital Resources   

  Under the Company s
Bylaws and Grower Contracts, payments for member delivered sugarbeets, the
principal raw material used in producing the sugar and agri-products it sells,
are subordinated to all member business expenses.  In addition, the beet payment made to member
growers and non-member growers are paid in three payments over the course of a
year, and the payments are made net of any anticipated or declared unit retain
for the crop.  These procedures have the
effect of providing the Company with an additional source of short-term
financing.  This financing arrangement
may result in an additional source of liquidity and reduced need for outside
financing in comparison to a similar business operated on a non-cooperative
basis.  

  Because sugar is sold throughout the year (while
sugarbeets are processed primarily in the fall, winter and spring) and because
substantial amounts of equipment are required for its operations, the Company
has utilized substantial outside financing on both a seasonal and long-term
basis to fund its operations.  The
majority of such financing has been provided by a consortium of lenders led by
CoBank, ACB.  

  The Company has long-term debt availability with
CoBank, ACB of   $236.4 million, of which
$116.3 million in loans and $52.1 million in long-term letters of credit were
outstanding as of August 31, 2006.  The
unused long-term line of credit as of August 31, 2006 was $68.0 million.  In addition, the Company has long-term debt
outstanding, as of August 31, 2006, of $50 million from a private
placement of Senior Notes that occurred in September of 1998; $10.0 million from
a private placement of Senior Notes that occurred in January of 2003;
$42.3 million from nine separate issuances of  Pollution Control and Industrial Development Revenue Bonds; and a term
loan with Bank of North Dakota of $2.4 million.   

  The Company also has a seasonal line of credit with a
consortium of lenders led by CoBank, ACB of $300 million, of which there
was no outstanding balance as of August 31, 2006, and a line of credit with
Wells Fargo Bank for $1 million, of which there was no outstanding balance
as of August 31, 2006.  The Company s
commercial paper program provides short-term borrowings of up to $225 million
of which approximately $5.3 million was outstanding as of August 31, 2006.  The Company had $5.8 million of short-term
letters of credit outstanding as of August 31, 2006.  The unused short-term line of credit as of
August 31, 2006 was $289.9 million.  Any
borrowings under the commercial paper program   

15     

along with outstanding
short-term letters of credit will act to reduce the available credit under the
CoBank, ACB seasonal line of credit by a commensurate amount.  

  The Company had outstanding
commitments totaling $12.4 million as of August 31, 2006 for equipment and
construction contracts related to various capital and maintenance projects.  

  The Company controls 50
percent of Crystech, LLC, a special purpose entity that operates a molasses
desugarization facility at the Company s Hillsboro, North Dakota sugar
factory.  The Company accounts for its
investment using the equity method.  As
of August 31, 2006, Crystech had outstanding debt of $6.1 million.  

  As of August 31, 2006,
Midwest had outstanding short-term debt with CoBank, ACB of $3.6 million, of
which $2.1 million was guaranteed by the Company.  

  The net cash provided by operations was $105.3 million
for the year ended August 31, 2006 as compared to $84.6 million for the
previous year.  This increase of $20.7
million was primarily due to an increase in the amounts due growers of $127.3
million, reduced advances to related parties of $10.8 million, lower
contributions to pension plans of $12.2 million and increased unit retains
withheld from members of $7.8 million partially offset by increased receivables
of $79.7 million and inventories of $58.8 million.  The increase in amounts due growers is due
primarily to a higher grower payment this year resulting from higher sugar
selling prices.  Strong sales in August
2006 increased receivables substantially above the prior year s balance.  The increase in inventories was primarily due
to an increase in the net realizable value of sugar as of August 31, 2006 as
compared to that of August 31, 2005.  

  The net cash used in investing activities was $41.6
million for the year ended August 31, 2006 as compared to $43.1 million for the
previous year.  The decrease of $1.5
million was primarily related to increased equity distributions from CoBank,
ACB of $1.0 million and reduced investments in marketing cooperatives of $1.1
million partially offset by increased purchases of property and equipment of
$1.4 million.  

  The net cash used in financing activities was $63.6
million for the year ended August 31, 2006 as compared to $41.3 million for the
previous year.  This increase of $22.3
million was primarily due to increased payments on short-term debt of $25.9
million, increased payments of unit retains and equity retention of $12.9
million and increased payments on long-term debt of $3.0 million partially
offset by increased proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $19.5
million.  

  The Company anticipates that the funds necessary for
working capital requirements and future capital expenditures will be derived
from operations, short-term borrowings, depreciation, unit retains and
long-term borrowings.  

  The following table
provides information regarding the Company s contractual obligations as of
August 31, 2006:  

(1) The Company expects
to contribute approximately $4.0 million to the pension plans during the next
fiscal year.  Contributions for future
years are not known at this time and therefore are not included in the above
table.  

16     

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   

  Preparation of the
Company s consolidated financial statements requires estimates and judgments to
be made that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
reported.  Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate
accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base
accounting estimates.  Management continually evaluates these estimates
based on historical experience and other assumptions we believe to be
reasonable under the circumstances.  

  The difficulty in
applying these policies arises from the assumptions, estimates and judgments
that have to be made currently about matters that are inherently uncertain,
such as future economic conditions, operating results and valuations as well as
management intentions.  As the difficulty increases, the level of
precision decreases, meaning that actual results can and probably will be different
from those currently estimated.  

  Estimates are considered
to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate
requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the
accounting estimates are made, and (2) other materially different estimates
could have been reasonably made or material changes in the estimates are
reasonably likely to occur from period to period.  The Company s critical accounting estimates
include the following:  

    Inventory Valuation   

  Sugar, pulp, molasses and
other agri-product inventories are valued at estimated net realizable
value.  The Company derives its estimates
from sales contracts, recent sales and evaluations of market conditions and
trends.  Changes in market conditions may
cause management s estimates to differ from actual results.  

   Property and Equipment, Property and Equipment Held
for Lease, and Depreciation   

  Property and equipment,
and property and equipment held for lease are depreciated for financial
reporting purposes principally using straight-line methods with estimated
useful lives ranging from 4 to 40 years. Economic circumstances or other
factors may cause management s estimates of expected useful lives to differ
from actual.  

  The Company reviews its
property and equipment, and property and equipment held for lease for
impairment whenever events indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
not be recoverable.  An impairment loss
is recorded when the sum of the future cash flows is less than the carrying
amount of the asset.  An impairment loss
is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its
fair value.  There were no impairment
losses incurred during the fiscal year covered by this report.  However, considerable management judgment is
necessary to estimate future cash flows and may differ from actual results.  

   Pension Plan and Other
Post-Retirement Benefits   

  Accumulated plan benefits
are those future periodic payments, including lump-sum distributions, that are
attributable under the Company s Pension Plan and Post-Retirement Plan to the
service employees have rendered. Accumulated plan benefits include benefits
expected to be paid to retired or vested terminated employees or their
beneficiaries; beneficiaries of employees who have died; and present employees
or their beneficiaries.  

17     

The actuarial present
value of accumulated plan benefits is determined by an actuary and is the
amount that results from applying actuarial assumptions to adjust the
accumulated plan benefits to reflect the time value of money and the
probability of payment.  

  The significant actuarial
assumptions used in the determination of the actuarial present value of
accumulated pension plan benefits for fiscal 2006 were as follows:  Valuation Funding Method  - Entry age normal, frozen initial
liability;  Life Expectancy    RP-2000 Mortality
Table;  Retirement Age    graded rates from 1
percent retiring at age 55 to 100 percent retired by age 70 ; Investment
Return -  8.25 percent compounded annually for funding ;  Discount  Rate- 6.62
percent compounded annually;  Salary Scale  -
3.5 percent compounded annually (Plan A only).  

  The significant actuarial
assumptions used in the determination of the actuarial present value of
accumulated post-retirement benefits for fiscal 2006 were as follows:  Healthcare Cost Trend  - a 10.0 percent annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare benefits for participants
under age 65 was assumed for 2007.  The
rate is assumed to decline to 5.0 percent over the next five years.  For participants age 65 and older, an 11.0
percent annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare
benefits was assumed for 2007.  The rate
is assumed to decline to 6.0 percent over the next five years ; Discount  Rate- 6.62 percent compounded annually.  

  Actual events may differ
from the assumptions used and may result in plan benefit payments differing
significantly from these current estimates.  

   Results
of Operations   

  The Company s operational
results and the resulting beet payment to members and growers are substantially
dependent on market factors, including domestic prices for refined sugar.  These factors are continuously influenced by
a wide variety of market forces, including domestic sugarbeet and cane production,
weather conditions and United States  farm and trade policy, which the Company
is unable to predict.  

  In addition, highly
variable weather conditions during the growing, harvesting and processing
seasons, as well as diseases and insects, may materially affect the quality and
quantity of sugarbeets available for purchase as well as the unit costs of raw
materials and processing.  

   Comparison of the Years Ended August 31, 2006 and
2005   

  The harvest of the sugarbeet crop grown during 2005
and processed during fiscal 2006 produced a total of 9.6 million tons of
sugarbeets, or 19.0 tons of sugarbeets per acre from 507,000 acres.  This represents a decrease in total tons
harvested of 5.8 percent compared to the 2004 crop.  The sugar content of the 2005 crop was 18.0
percent as compared to the 17.8 percent sugar content of the 2004 crop.  The Company produced a total of
29.7 million hundredweight of sugar from the 2005 crop, a decrease of 2.6
percent compared to the 2004 crop. While the Company experienced lower
production volumes for most of its products this fiscal year as compared to the
previous fiscal year, the average selling prices for most of these products
increased due to supply and demand factors. 
Net Proceeds from Member and Non-Member Business for fiscal 2006 were
19.2 percent higher than in fiscal 2005. 
This increase is primarily the result of the increase in average selling
prices being partially offset by lower production volumes, higher processing
costs and selling expenses.  

  Revenue for the year ended August 31, 2006, was $1.0
billion, an increase of $40.2 million from 2005.  The table below reflects the percentage
changes in product revenue, prices and volumes for the year ended August 31,
2006 as compared to the previous year.  

18     

Rental revenue on the
ProGold operating lease was $25.1 million and $26.1 million for the years ended
August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

  Cost of sales for the
year ended August 31, 2006, exclusive of payments to members for sugarbeets,
decreased $35.9 million as compared to fiscal 2005.  The change in the net realizable value of
product inventories impacted the cost of sales favorably by $33.0 million.  The costs associated with sugar purchased to
meet customer needs decreased by $12.5 million due to the earlier campaign
start-up this year.  The cost recognized
associated with the non-member sugarbeets increased $4.7 million or 13.1
percent for the year ended August 31, 2006 when compared to last year.  This increase was primarily due to higher
sugar net selling prices and more sugarbeets harvested this year at Sidney
Sugars Incorporated.  Direct processing
costs for sugar and pulp increased 6.9 percent. 
The increase is due to higher prices related to energy products and
major supplies partially offset by harvesting and processing 5.8 percent fewer
sugarbeets than last year.  Fixed and
committed expenses increased 2.1 percent reflecting general cost increases.  

  Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased $7.5 million from 2005.  Selling expenses increased $6.3 million
primarily due to  higher
freight, warehousing and packaging costs.  General and Administrative expenses increased
$1.2 million due to general cost increases. 

  Lower average long-term
debt borrowing levels partially offset by higher average short-term interest
rates resulted in interest expense, net, remaining relatively level between the
fiscal years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005.  

  Non-member business
activities resulted in a gain of $2.2 million in 2006, as compared to a gain of
$2.5 million in 2005.  The gain in both
years was due primarily to activities related to Sidney Sugars.  

  Payments to members for sugarbeets, net of unit
retains declared, increased by $64.5 million from $351.9 million in 2005 to
$416.4 million in 2006. This was primarily due to the increased net selling
prices for sugar and agri-products in 2006.  

   Comparison of the Years Ended August 31, 2005 and
2004   

  The harvest of the
sugarbeet crop grown during 2004 and processed during fiscal 2005 produced a
total of 10.2 million tons of sugarbeets, or 19.4 tons of sugarbeets per
acre from 526,000 acres.  This represents
a decrease in total tons harvested of 7.0 percent compared to the 2003
crop.  The sugar content of the 2004 crop
was 17.8 percent as compared to the 18.5 percent sugar content of the 2003
crop.  The Company produced a total of
30.5 million hundredweight of sugar from the 2004 crop, a decrease of 9.8
percent compared to the 2003 crop.  Net
Proceeds from Member and Non-Member Business for fiscal 2005 were 21.1 percent
lower than in fiscal 2004.  This decrease
is primarily the result of the smaller and lower quality sugarbeet crop in fiscal
2005 as compared to the prior year.  

  Revenue for the year
ended August 31, 2005, was $965.5 million, a decrease of $67.6 million from
2004.  The table below reflects the
percentage changes in product revenue, prices and volumes for the year ended
August 31, 2005 as compared to the previous year.  

19  

Rental revenue on the
ProGold operating lease was $26.1 million and $25.8 million for the years ended
August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Cost of sales for the
year ended August 31, 2005, exclusive of payments to members for sugarbeets,
increased $26.7 million as compared to fiscal 2004.  The change in the net realizable value of
product inventories impacted the cost of sales unfavorably by $9.0
million.  The costs associated with sugar
purchased to meet customer needs increased by $13.3 million due to the later
campaign start-up this year and a 10.0 percent reduction in sugar produced
resulting from a 7.0 percent smaller crop along with a lower sugar content of
the sugarbeets this year.  The cost
recognized associated with the non-member sugarbeets decreased $9.0 million or
20.1 percent for the year ended August 31, 2005 when compared to last
year.  This decrease was primarily due to
fewer sugarbeets harvested this year. 
Direct processing costs for sugar and pulp increased 3.7 percent.  The increase is due to increased prices
related to energy products and major supplies partially offset by harvesting
and processing 7.0 percent fewer sugarbeets than last year.  Fixed and committed expenses increased 3.2
percent reflecting increased wastewater treatment expenses and general cost
increases.  

  Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased $3.3 million from 2004.  Selling expenses increased $3.2 million
primarily due to  higher
freight and packaging costs. 
General and Administrative expenses increased $ .1 million due in part
to increased funding for sugar industry and association activities. 

  Interest expense
decreased $1.0 million from last year. This was the result of decreased average
borrowing levels for short-term and long-term debt, partially offset by higher
short-term and long-term interest rates.  

  Non-member business
activities resulted in a gain of $2.5 million in 2005, as compared to a gain of
$4.2 million in 2004.  The gain in both
years was due primarily to activities related to Sidney Sugars. Earnings from
the operations of Sidney Sugars were lower this year due to the smaller
sugarbeet crop and reduced selling prices for sugar.  

  Payments to members for sugarbeets, net of unit
retains declared, decreased by $86.9 million from $438.9 million in 2004 to
$351.9 million in 2005. This was primarily due to the decreased size and
quality of the crop harvested and processed in 2005.  

   2006
Crop and Estimated Fiscal Year 2007 Information   

  This discussion contains the Company s current
estimate of the results to be obtained from the Company s processing of the
2006 sugarbeet crop.  This discussion
includes forward-looking statements regarding the quantity of sugar to be
produced from the 2006 sugarbeet crop. 
These forward-looking statements are based largely upon the Company s
expectations and estimates of future events; as a result, they are subject to a
variety of risks and uncertainties.  The
actual results experienced by the Company could differ materially from the
forward-looking statements contained herein.  

20     

Due to the
estimated large size of the 2006 Red River Valley crop, the Company instituted
an eight percent reduction in the number of acres harvested by members in order
to manage the quantity and quality of the sugarbeets available for processing
during fiscal 2007.  The harvest of the
Red River Valley and the Sidney sugarbeet crops grown during 2006 is estimated
to produce a total of 12.5 million tons of sugarbeets, or approximately
25.2 tons of sugarbeets per acre from approximately 497,000 acres.  This represents an increase in total tons
harvested of approximately 30.2 percent compared to the 2005 crop.  The sugar content of the 2006 crop is
estimated to be 18.1 percent as compared to the 18.0 percent sugar content of
the 2005 crop.  The Company expects to
produce a total of approximately 34.8 million hundredweight of sugar from
the 2006 crop, an increase of approximately 16.9 percent compared to the 2005
crop.  

   Item 7A.                                   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK 

  Market risk is the risk of loss to future earnings, to
fair values or to future cash flows that may result from changes in the price
of a financial instrument.  The value of
a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in the interest rates,
exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes.  Market risk is attributed to all market-risk
sensitive financial instruments, including long term debt.  

  The Company does not
believe that it is subject to any material market risk exposure with respect to
interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other
market changes that would require disclosure under this item.  

   Item 8.                                            FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 

  The consolidated financial statements of the Company
for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 have been audited by
Eide Bailly LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.  Such consolidated financial statements have
been included herein in reliance upon the report of Eide Bailly LLP.  The consolidated financial statements of the
Company are included in Appendix A to this annual report.  

Item 9.  

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
  ACCOUNTING AND  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE    

None  

   Item
9A.                                   CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES 

  The Company s chief
executive officer and chief financial officer have reviewed and evaluated the
effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Rules 240.13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934) as of August 31, 2006. 
Based on that review and evaluation, which included inquiries made to
certain other employees of the Company, the chief executive officer and chief
financial officer have concluded that the Company s current disclosure controls
and procedures, as designed and implemented, are effective in ensuring that
information relating to the Company required to be disclosed in the reports the
Company files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
Security and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, including ensuring that
such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management,
including the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  There were no changes in the Company s
internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the Company s
most recent fiscal quarter that may have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.  

21     

PART III   

   Item 10.                                     DIRECTORS
AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

   Board of Directors   

  The Board of Directors of
the Company consists of three directors from each of the five factory
districts.  Directors must hold common
stock of the Company or must be representatives of such shareholders belonging
to the district they represent and are elected by the members of that
district.  In the case of a holder of
common stock who is other than a natural person, a duly appointed or elected representative
of such shareholder may serve as a director. 
The directors were elected to serve three-year terms expiring in
December of the years indicated in the table below.  One director is elected each year from each
factory district.  A director cannot
serve more than four consecutive three-year terms.  

  The table below lists
certain information concerning current directors of the Company.   

22     

Below is the biographical
information on each Director.  

   Michael A. Astrup.    Mr. Astrup has been a director since
1996.  Mr. Astrup has been a farmer
since 1976, with his farming operations located near Dilworth, Minnesota.  Mr. Astrup serves on the Board of
Directors of United Sugars Corporation, the Board of Governors of ProGold
Limited Liability Company and is a Director of the American Sugarbeet Growers
Association. 

   William Baldwin. 
  Mr. Baldwin has been a director since 2004.  Mr.
Baldwin has been farming in the Drayton Factory District since 1966 and is the
President of Baldwin Farms Incorporated. 
Mr. Baldwin is the past President of the Red River Valley Sugarbeet
Growers Association, served on the American Sugarbeet Growers Executive
Committee and is currently serving on the Farm Service Agency, State Committee. 

   Richard Borgen.    Mr. Borgen has been a director since
1997.  Mr. Borgen has farmed east of
Perley, Minnesota, since 1967 and has served as a director on the Perley Co-op
Elevator Board for nine years and the Norman County West school board for 10
years. 

   John Brainard.    Mr. Brainard has been a director since
2005.  Mr. Brainard has been a sugarbeet grower since 1998.  Mr. Brainard is a past director of the
Minnesota Farm Bureau and has served on the executive committee of the Red
River Valley Sugarbeet Growers Association. 

   Brian R. Erickson.    Mr. Erickson has been a director since
2005.  Mr. Erickson has been a sugarbeet grower for over 20 years.  Mr. Erickson is the Chairman of the East
Grand Forks Economic Development and Housing Authority. 

23     

Robert M. Green.    Mr. Green has been a director since
2005.  Mr. Green has been a sugarbeet grower since 1976.  Mr. Green served 12 years as a director of
the Red River Valley Sugarbeet Growers Association and is currently a director
of the Wells Fargo Bank in Grafton, ND. 
Mr. Green serves as a director for the American Sugarbeet Growers
Association. 

   John F. Gudajtes. 
  Mr. Gudajtes has been a director since 2003.  Mr. Gudajtes has farmed in the Minto, North
Dakota area since 1967 and is the President of Gudajtes Farms.  Mr. Gudajtes has been the President of Walsh
County Historical Society for three years. 

   Curtis E. Haugen. 
  Mr. Haugen has been a director since 2001.  Mr. Haugen has been a farmer since 1981   and farms near Argyle, Minnesota.  Mr. Haugen is serving as a director and
President of the Farmer s Union Oil Company, Oslo, Minnesota. 

   Lonn M. Kiel.    Mr. Kiel has been a director since 1994
and has been farming near Crookston, Minnesota, since 1982.  Mr. Kiel is the president of Kiel
Corporation. 

   David J. Kragnes.    Mr. Kragnes has been a director since
1995 and has served as Chairman since 2005. 
Mr. Kragnes has been a farmer since 1972, with his farming
operation located near Felton, Minnesota. 
Mr. Kragnes serves on the Board of Directors of United Sugars
Corporation, as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Midwest Agri-Commodities
Company, as Chairman of the Board of Governors of ProGold Limited Liability
Company and is also a director for the American Sugarbeet Growers Association. 

   Francis L. Kritzberger.    Mr. Kritzberger has been a director
since 1996.  Mr. Kritzberger has
previously served as a director with the Company, from July 30, 1989 until
July 30, 1993.  Mr. Kritzberger
has been a farmer since 1964. 
Mr. Kritzberger serves on the Board of Directors of the North
Dakota Council of Cooperatives. 

   Jeff D. McInnes.    Mr. McInnes has been a director since
2001.  Mr. McInnes co-manages a
4,000 acre farming operation near Hillsboro, North Dakota.  Mr. McInnes is the founder and manager
of the Basement Traders Marketing Club, a grain marketing association in
Hillsboro.  Mr. McInnes serves on the
Board of Directors of Midwest Agri-Commodities Company and the Board of
Governors of ProGold Limited Liability Company. 

   Ronald E. Reitmeier.    Mr. Reitmeier has been a director since
1996, and has been a farmer since 1968. 
Mr. Reitmeier is the President of R J Crop Production Inc.  Mr. Reitmeier has served as a member of the
Board of Directors of PKM Electric Co-op of Warren, Minnesota, for 19 years and
as its Chairman of the Board since 2004. 
Mr. Reitmeier previously served on the Fisher, Minnesota, School Board
for 18 years, as President of the Polk County Farmers Union and Chairman of the
Minnesota Farmers Union Executive Committee of County Chairpersons. 

   Jim A. Ross.    Mr. Ross has been a director since
1998.  Mr. Ross has farmed near Fisher,
Minnesota, since 1971 and is a board member of Fisher Fuel and Hardware
Cooperative.  Mr. Ross also serves on the
Board of Governors of ProGold Limited Liability Company. 

   Neil C. Widner. 
  Mr. Widner has been a director since 2000.  Mr. Widner has farmed near Stephen,
Minnesota, since 1973.  Mr. Widner serves
on the Board of Directors of United Sugars Corporation and is also a director
for the American Sugarbeet Growers Association. 

  The Board of Directors meets monthly.  For fiscal year 2006, the Company provided
its directors with compensation consisting of (i) a payment of $525 per
month, (ii) a per diem payment of $250 for each day spent on Company
activities, including board meetings and other Company functions, and
(iii) reimbursement of expenses for attendance at Board of Directors 
meetings.  The Chairman of the Board of
Directors receives a payment of $1,025 per month, rather than $525 per month;
the Chairman  

24     

also receives a per diem
in the amount of $250 for each day spent on Company activities.  The Board of Directors has approved an annual
increase in the monthly compensation paid to directors and the Chairman of $25
per month for each fiscal year.  

  Under the terms of the Board of Directors Deferred
Compensation Plan, members of the Board of Directors can elect to defer receipt
of their monthly and per diem compensation. 
This is an annual irrevocable election made prior to January 1 of each
calendar year the fees are to be paid. 
The amounts are deferred until either withdrawal from the Board of
Directors by a member or until retirement from the member s regular employment
or business, but not beyond age 65.  Two
payment options are available at the election of the participant.  Payments can be received in a single lump sum
or in equal installments over a period of up to ten years.  The Board of Directors, at its discretion,
can elect to distribute the remaining balance at any time.  Interest is earned on the amounts deferred
based on the five year Treasury bond rate. 
Currently, there is one member who has elected to participate in this
plan.  The amount deferred, as of August
31, 2006 was approximately $25,000.  

   Audit
Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert   

  The Audit Committee
assists the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities
relating to the Company s financial reporting and controls, the annual
independent audit of the Company s consolidated financial statements and the
legal compliance and ethics programs as established by management and the Board
of Directors.  The Audit Committee
selects the independent public accountants, approves the fees and the scope and
procedural plans of the audits of the Company s consolidated financial
statements.  The Audit Committee
administers the Company s employee complaint program and handles, on behalf of
the full Board of Directors, any issues that arise under the Company s Code of
Ethics.  On August 31, 2006, the members
of the Audit Committee were Neil Widner (Committee Chair), William Baldwin,
Brian Erickson, Robert Green and Curtis Haugen.  

  As of August 31, 2006, the Board of Directors of the
Company has determined that there is no audit committee financial expert
serving on the Audit Committee.  The
Company is a cooperative formed in accordance with the Minnesota cooperative
law of the State of Minnesota.  In
accordance with the Minnesota cooperative law, the Amended and Restated
Articles of the Incorporation of the Company and the Amended and Restated
Bylaws of the Company, the Board of Directors must be composed of members of
the Company (the holders of common stock). 
Membership in the Company is limited to agricultural producers who are
actively involved in the production of sugarbeets.  Based on the state law requirements for both
membership and board service, the Company is unable to recruit outside of its
membership to elect to its Board of Directors and its audit committee an
individual that possesses the attributes of an  audit committee financial
expert  as defined by the SEC.  To date, the Company has been unable to
recruit from its membership an individual to serve on the Board of Directors
that possesses the attributes of an  audit committee financial expert.   

25     

Executive Officers   

  The table below lists the principal officers of the
Company, none of whom owns any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock.  Officers are elected annually by the Board of
Directors.  

Name   

Age   

Position   

James J. Horvath  

61  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Thomas S. Astrup  

37  

Vice President- Agriculture  

David A. Berg  

52  

Vice President-Operations and Chief Operations
  Officer  

Brian F. Ingulsrud  

43  

Vice President-Administration  

Joseph J. Talley  

46  

Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer  

Daniel C. Mott  

47  

Secretary  

Samuel S. M. Wai  

52  

Treasurer and Assistant Secretary  

Mark P. Kalvoda  

34  

Corporate Controller, Assistant Secretary and
  Assistant Treasurer  

Mark L. Lembke  

50  

Finance Administration Manager, Assistant
  Secretary and Assistant Treasurer  

David L. Malmskog  

49  

Director - Economic Analysis and Business
  Development, Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer  

Ronald K. Peterson  

51  

Accounting   Systems Manager, Assistant
  Secretary and Assistant Treasurer  

Lisa M. Maloy  

42  

Treasury Operations Manager and Assistant Secretary  

James J. Horvath.   Mr. Horvath was named President and
Chief Executive Officer in May, 1998.  He
served as Chief Financial Officer from 1996 to 1998.  From 1994 to 1996, Mr. Horvath served as
the Company s Vice President-Joint Ventures as well as Chief Manager and Chief
Operating Officer of ProGold Limited Liability Company.  Mr. Horvath also served as the Company s
Vice President-Finance from 1985 to 1994. 
Mr. Horvath currently serves on the Boards of Directors of United
Sugars Corporation and Midwest Agri-Commodities Company.  

   Thomas S. Astrup  .  Mr. Astrup was named the Company s Vice
President-Agriculture in February 2004. 
Mr. Astrup served as the Company s Vice President-Administration from
2000 to 2004 and as the Company s Corporate Controller, Assistant Treasurer and
Assistant Secretary from 1999 to 2000. 
From 1997 until 1999, he held the position of Controller for Midwest
Agri-Commodities Company.  He was the
Corporate Accountant for ProGold Limited Liability Company from 1994 to 1997. 

   David A. Berg.    Mr. Berg was named Vice President-Operations
and Chief Operations Officer in January 2004. 
He was Vice President-Agriculture during the period December 2000 to
January 2004 and Vice President-Administration during the period from October
1998 to December 2000.  During the period
from 1994 to 1998, Mr. Berg served as the Company s Vice President-Business
Development, Vice President-Strategic Planning, Director-Market Information,
Manager of Marketing and Analysis and Manager-Economic Research.  Mr. Berg currently serves on the ProGold
Limited Liability Company Board of Governors and as Chairman of the Crystech,
LLC Board of Managers. 

26     

Brian F.
Ingulsrud.    Mr.
Ingulsrud was named Vice President-Administration in February 2004.  From 2000 to 2004, he served as the Corporate
Controller, Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer.   Mr. Ingulsrud served as Director of
Agriculture Strategy and Development from 1999 to 2000, Financial Planning
Manager from 1997 until 1998, and Factory Offices Manager from 1995 until 1997. 

   Joseph J. Talley.    Mr. Talley currently serves as Vice
President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and also as Chief
Operating Officer of Sidney Sugars Incorporated. Mr. Talley was named Vice
President-Finance in 1998, Chief Operating Officer of Sidney Sugars
Incorporated in 2002 and Chief Financial Officer of the Company in 2003.  He served as the Company s Treasurer and
Finance Director, Assistant Treasurer and Assistant Secretary from 1996 until
his appointment as Vice President-Finance. 
Mr. Talley served as Finance Director of ProGold Limited Liability
Company from 1994 through 1996.  He
currently serves on the Board of Governors for ProGold Limited Liability
Company. 

   Daniel C. Mott.    Mr. Mott became the Company s Secretary
during 1999.  Previously, he had served
as Assistant Secretary since 1995.  Mr.
Mott also serves as the Company s General Counsel.  He is a Shareholder in the law firm of
Fredrikson   Byron, P.A.  Mr. Mott is
not an employee of the Company. 

   Samuel S. M. Wai.    Mr. Wai was named the Company s
Treasurer and Assistant Secretary in 1999. 
He served as the Company s Corporate Controller from 1996 until 1999 and
was the Company s Treasurer from 1985 to 1996. 
He held various financial positions with the Company from 1979 to
1985.  Mr. Wai also serves on the
Board of Managers of Crystech, LLC and as Treasurer of the American Crystal
Sugar Political Action Committee.  Mr.
Wai also serves on the Board of Directors of the Institute of Cooperative
Financial Officers. 

   Mark P. Kalvoda.    Mr. Kalvoda was named Assistant Secretary and
Assistant Treasurer in 2004.  He was
employed by the Company in 2004 and currently serves as the Corporate
Controller.  Prior to his employment with
the Company, Mr. Kalvoda held various financial positions within Hormel Foods
Corporation. 

   Mark L. Lembke.    Mr. Lembke was named Assistant Secretary
and Assistant Treasurer in 1996.  He
currently serves as Finance Administration Manager.  Mr. Lembke served as the Company s
Corporate Accounting Manager from 1995 to 1999. 
From 1987 through 1995, Mr. Lembke served as Factory Accounting
Supervisor. 

   Ronald K. Peterson.    Mr. Peterson has served as Assistant
Treasurer and Assistant Secretary since 1993. 
He currently holds the position of Accounting and Systems Manager.  From 1996 to 1999 Mr. Peterson was the
Financial Systems Manager and from 1991 to 1995 served as the Company s
Corporate Accounting Manager. 
Mr. Peterson has held various financial positions with the Company
since 1979. 

   David L. Malmskog.    Mr. Malmskog currently serves as
Director-Economic Analysis and Business Development and was appointed Assistant
Secretary and Assistant Treasurer in 1998. 
Mr. Malmskog has held various financial positions with the Company
since 1980.  Mr. Malmskog serves on
the Board of Managers of Crystech, LLC 

   Lisa M. Maloy.   Ms. Maloy
currently serves as Treasury Operations Manager and was appointed Assistant
Secretary in 2002.  Prior to joining the
Company in 1997, Ms. Maloy was a tax attorney with Ernst   Young LLP in
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 

   Code of
Ethics   

  The Company has adopted a
code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller and certain other
senior financial personnel.  The Company
will provide at no charge a copy of the code of ethics to any person who  

27     

requests a copy by sending a written request to the
Company s headquarters, attention of the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company.  

   Item 11.                                     EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION  

  The following table
summarizes the amount of compensation paid for services rendered to the Company
during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006 and the two prior fiscal
years to those persons serving as the Company s Chief Executive Officer and to
the four other most highly compensated current executive officers of the
Company.  

   SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE   

*       Effective
February 9, 2004  

  **     Effective January 12,
2004  

  (1)            Includes the cost of additional life insurance coverage,
imputed value of long-term disability insurance, car allowance, reimbursed
health club dues, costs of tax return preparation, Company 401(k) matching
contributions, Company matching SERP contributions, flexible spending taxable
cash, and flexible spending dollars into 401(k). 

  (2)            Includes amounts paid to executive
officers who exercised vested contract rights and the  profit per acre payments 
earned by the executive under the Company s LTIP plans (described below).  The profit per acre payments are determined
by subtracting from the Company s gross beet payment per acre the average cost
of production per acre incurred by the Company s members and multiplying the
result by the number of vested contract rights held by the executive. 

28  

Employment Agreement with CEO   

  Effective May 15, 1998, the Company and
Mr. Horvath entered into an agreement regarding Mr. Horvath s
employment by the Company.  The agreement
provides that Mr. Horvath shall serve as an  at will  employee at the
pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The
agreement also contains the provision of a three-year
non-compete/non-solicitation agreement with Mr. Horvath, grants the Board
of Directors the authority to establish Mr. Horvath s base compensation each
year, and also provides that he may participate in other benefit plans offered
by the Company.  

  On September 28, 2005, the Company and Mr. Horvath,
entered into an amendment to his existing employment agreement with the Company
dated May 15, 1998.  Prior to this
Amendment, the Employment Agreement contained certain provisions that were a
disincentive to Mr. Horvath continuing his employment with the Company beyond
September 30, 2005 and other provisions that required amendment as a result of
recent changes in the tax laws.  The Amendment
(1) eliminates the disincentive to Mr. Horvath to continue his employment with
the Company, (2) changes certain vacation accruals so that Mr. Horvath accrues
additional vacation days and (3) makes certain other changes required to comply
with the recent changes to the tax laws.  

  If Mr. Horvath s employment terminates with the
Company without cause or he incurs a termination due to disability after age
60, Mr. Horvath is entitled to receive reimbursement for the cost of
medical and dental coverage for himself and his spouse from the date of
termination through their respective deaths; life insurance coverage equal to
his base salary on the date of termination until he attains age 65, from age 65
to 70 equal to 50 percent of his base salary on the date of termination, and
after age 70 equal to 25 percent of his base salary on the date of termination;
and supplemental pension benefits equal to the difference between the
cumulative monthly amount of the retirement benefit Mr. Horvath would have
received under Retirement Plan A and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(SERP) computed as though Mr. Horvath continued his employment to age 65
assuming compensation equal to or greater of (1) the actual compensation paid
twelve months immediately preceding termination (including annual incentive
compensation paid in only the most recently completed fiscal year) to be
applied for the years remaining to age 65 (with actual compensation to be used
for the years prior to the date of termination); or (2) the compensation paid
for the period beginning October 1, 2004, and ending September 30, 2005, to be
applied for each of the five years from age 60 to age 65, and in each case
assuming 30 years of service actually attained as of the date of termination of
employment or the date on which he attains age 65, with no reduction in
benefits on account of an election by Mr. Horvath for any death benefit to be
paid to his spouse under the Retirement Plan A and the cumulative monthly
amount of the retirement benefits actually paid to Mr. Horvath under
Retirement Plan A and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP).  

  If Mr. Horvath s employment terminates with the
Company without cause after age 60 and Mr. Horvath subsequently dies, or
if Mr. Horvath dies prior to terminating his employment with the Company,
Mr. Horvath s spouse is entitled to receive monthly payments for the
remainder of her life equal to the difference between the cumulative monthly
amount of the retirement benefit Mr. Horvath would have received under
Retirement Plan A and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP)
computed as though Mr. Horvath continued his employment to age 65 assuming
compensation equal to or greater of (1) the actual compensation paid twelve
months immediately preceding termination (including annual incentive
compensation paid in only the most recently completed fiscal year) to be
applied for the years remaining to age 65 (with actual compensation to be used
for the years prior to the date of termination); or (2) the compensation paid
for the period beginning October 1, 2004, and ending September 30, 2005 to be
applied for each of the five years from age 60 to age 65, and in each case
assuming 30 years of service actually attained as of the date of termination of
employment or the date on which he attains age 65, with no reduction in
benefits on account of an election by Mr. Horvath for any death benefit to be
paid to his spouse under the Retirement Plan A and the cumulative monthly
amount  

29     

of the retirement
benefits actually paid to Mr. Horvath under Retirement Plan A and the
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP).  

   Incentive Plans   

   Annual Incentive Plan   

  The Company s salaried employees are entitled to
participate in an annual incentive program that provides for cash awards based
partially on the performance of the Company and partially on achievement of
certain performance objectives.  The
performance objectives of the CEO are determined by the Board of Directors.  The performance objectives of other
executives are determined by the CEO. 
The amount of the incentive bonus is dependent on the employee s
responsibilities, the performance of the Company and the employee s performance
for the fiscal year.  

   Long-Term
Incentive Plans   

   1999
Long-Term Incentive Plan   

  During 2005, the granting
of additional contract rights under the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan (1999
Plan) was discontinued with the adoption of the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(2005 Plan) discussed below.  All vested
contract rights as of December 31, 2004, remained in the 1999 Plan while all
unvested contract rights were transferred to the 2005 Plan. The value of the
contract rights remaining in the 1999 Plan is related to the value of preferred
shares of the Company as determined by the Board of Directors.  

  As of August 31, 2006,
there were 455.07 vested contract rights remaining in the 1999 Plan.  At August 31, 2006, the Board of Directors
increased the value of these contract rights from $1,800 to $1,900 per contract
right.  

   2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan   

  Under this plan, which became effective in fiscal
2005, awards are based upon progress towards achieving certain long-term
strategic objectives established by the Board of Directors.  Incentive awards under the plan range from 0
to 40 percent of base compensation for the Vice Presidents and from 0 to 80
percent of base compensation for the CEO. 
The actual amount of the award available to a given individual is based
upon the collective performance level of participants as determined by the
Board of Directors.  Awards paid under
the plan may be paid in the form of cash paid to the employee s Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan, as discussed below, or in the form of contract
rights, in each case as determined by the Board of Directors.  All awards will be subject to a three year
vesting schedule.  The Board of Directors
retains the discretion to determine the amount of any cash awards and/or
contract rights to be made available to plan participants with respect to a
given fiscal year.  The 2005 Plan
establishes additional restrictions on distributions, as compared to those
contained in the 1999 Plan, along with other changes necessary to comply with
recent changes to the tax laws.  

  During 2006, 12.63 vested
contract rights were exercised at a stated value of $1,800 per contract
right.  In 2006, 306.05 contract rights
were granted at a stated value of $1,900 per contract right.  At August 31, 2006, the Board of Directors
increased the value of the 659.92 contract rights previously granted from
$1,800 to $1,900 per contract right.  As
of August 31, 2006, there were 965.97 contract rights issued and outstanding at
a stated value of $1,900 per contract right, of which 473.01 were vested.  

30     

The table below lists the executives named in the
compensation table who have been granted and hold contract rights under the
plans discussed above.  

(1)                                     The
amount shown represents the value of vested contract rights exercised during
fiscal 2006 and a representative amount, determined for the last fiscal year,
with respect to  profit per acre payments , which are non-stock price based
payments.  The profit per acre payments
are determined by subtracting from the Company s gross beet payment per acre
the average cost of production per acre incurred by the Company s members and
multiplying the result by the number of vested contract rights held by the
executive.  Based on that formula, the
Company must provide a beet payment per acre to its members equal to the
average cost of production for an acre of sugarbeets in order for executives
holding contract rights to obtain any payment of profit per acre payments.  Given the method of determining the profit
per acre payments, there is no maximum payment amount. 

   Retirement Plans   

  The Company has established noncontributory, defined
benefit retirement plans which are available to all eligible employees of the
Company.  Those employees who are covered
by a collective bargaining agreement participate in Plan B, while employees who
are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement, including the executive
officers listed on the Summary Compensation Table, participate in pension Plan
A.  The benefits of the plans are funded
by periodic Company contributions to a retirement trust which invests the
Company s contributions and the earnings from such contributions in order to
pay the benefits to the employees.  The
plans provide for the payment of monthly retirement benefits determined under a
calculation based on years of service and a participant s compensation.  Retirement benefits are paid to participants
upon normal retirement at the age of 65 or later or upon early retirement.  The plans also provide for the payment of
certain disability and death benefits.  

  Certain executive
employees of the Company are eligible to participate in a  Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan.   Subject to
the discretion of the Board of Directors, the plan provides for the Company to
credit to the account of each executive eligible to participate in the
Supplemental Plan amounts equal to (i) the difference between amounts
actually contributed to the Company s 401(k) plan on behalf of the executive
and the amounts which could have been contributed if certain provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code did not prohibit the contribution of such amounts and
(ii) the difference between the benefits actually payable to the executive
under the provisions of Retirement Plan  A  and the amounts which would be
payable under Retirement Plan  A  if certain provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code did not prohibit the payment of such benefits.  In addition, the executive may elect to defer
a portion of his or her compensation, ranging from 2 percent to 20 percent, by
regular payroll deductions under the Supplemental Plan, and may also defer 100
percent of all incentive compensation  

31     

and profits-per-acre
payments.  The Supplemental Plan is an  unfunded 
plan, with all amounts to be paid under the Supplemental Plan to be paid from
the general assets of the Company when due and also to be subject to the claims
of the Company s creditors.  

  The table below shows the approximate annual pension
benefits payable to executive officers at normal retirement under Retirement
Plan A, as well as a non-qualified supplemental benefit plan.  The compensation covered by the pension
program is based on an employee s annual salary and incentive
compensation.  Amounts payable are
computed on the basis of a straight life annuity and are not reduced for social
security benefits or other offsets.  

   American Crystal Sugar Company   

   2006 Calculation   

   Plan A Qualified and
Non-Qualified Supplemental Benefits   

The five executive
officers named in the Summary Compensation Table who are currently employees of
the Company, have years of service under the plan as follows: Mr. Horvath
has served for 21 years; Mr. Astrup has served for 12 years; Mr. Berg has
served for 19 years; Mr. Ingulsrud has served for 15 years; and Mr. Talley
has served for 12 years.  

  The Company maintains
Section 401(k) plans that permit employees to elect to set aside, on a pre-tax
and after-tax basis, a portion of their gross compensation in trust to pay
future retirement benefits.  The Company
matches 100 percent of the nonunion and eligible union year-round participant s
pre-tax contribution up to 4 percent and 2 percent, respectively, of their
gross earnings.  The total annual
addition to any employee s account in any calendar year may not exceed the
lesser of (i) $40,000 or (ii) 100 percent of annual compensation less
the amount of the employer match and the employee deferral.  For calendar 2006, the employee pre-income
tax contribution is limited to $15,000 and an additional $5,000 of Catch-up contributions,
if applicable.  Benefits under the 401(k)
plans can begin to be paid to the employee upon the close of the plan year in
which one of the following events has occurred: the date the employee attains
age 59 , the date the employee terminates his service with the employer and the
date specified in a written election made by the employee to receive benefits
no  

32     

later than April 1
of the year following the calendar year in which the employee retires, dies,
becomes disabled, reaches age 70  or is terminated.  

   Item
12.                                     SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT 

  Under state law and the Company s Bylaws, each member
of the cooperative is entitled to one vote, regardless of the number of shares
the member holds.  The Common Stock of
the Company is voting stock and each member of the Company holds one share of
Common Stock.  The Preferred Stock of the
Company is non-voting stock.  The Company s
stock can only be held by individuals who are sugarbeet growers.  None of the officers or executives of the
Company hold stock of the Company.  As
members of the cooperative, each director owns one share of Common Stock and is
entitled to one vote.  As a group, the
directors generally own approximately 2 to 3 percent of the outstanding
Preferred Stock.  

   Item
13.                                     CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

  Each of the Company s directors is also a sugarbeet
farmer and a shareholder member or representative of a shareholder member of
the Company.  By virtue of their status
as such members of the Company, each director or the member he represents sells
sugarbeets to the Company and receives payments for those sugarbeets.  Such payments for sugarbeets often exceed
$60,000.  Such payments, however, are
received by the directors or the entities they represent on exactly the same
basis as payments received by other members of the Company for the delivery of
their sugarbeets.  Except for the
sugarbeet sales described in the preceding sentences, none of the directors or
executive officers of the Company have engaged in any other transactions with
the Company involving amounts in excess of $60,000.  

   Item
14.                                     PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

  The following table presents fees for professional
audit services rendered by Eide Bailly LLP for the audits of the Company s and
consolidated companies  annual financial statements for the years ended August
31, 2006 and 2005 and fees for other services rendered by Eide Bailly LLP
during those periods.  

Audit
Fees.    The Audit Fees
set forth above include the aggregate fees billed by Eide Bailly LLP to the
Company for audit services related to the audit of the Company s and
consolidated companies  annual financial statements and review of the
statements included in the Company s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal
2006 and fiscal 2005. 

   Audit-Related Fees.    The Audit-Related Fees set forth above
include the aggregate fees billed by Eide
Bailly LLP to the Company and consolidated companies for assurance and related
services provided by Eide Bailly LLP related to the performance of the audit or
review of the Company s financial statements for fiscal 2006 and fiscal
2005.  These services included Benefit
Plan audits. 

   Tax Fees.    The Tax Fees set forth above include the
aggregate fees billed by Eide Bailly LLP
to the Company and consolidated
companies for professional services rendered by Eide Bailly for tax 

33     

compliance, tax advice
and tax planning for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005.   These services include tax return preparation, tax planning and tax
research. 

   All Other Fees.    The All Other Fees set forth above include
the aggregate fees billed by Eide Bailly LLP to the Company and consolidated companies for
professional services provided by Eide Bailly LLP to the Company and consolidated companies.  There were no other fees paid to Eide Bailly
LLP for fiscal 2006 or fiscal 2005. 

  The Company s Audit Committee
pre-approves all professional services provided by Eide Bailly LLP to the
Company.  The Audit Committee approved all   of the services and the fees billed for such services to the
Company that are included above.  The
Audit Committee makes its decisions on the approval of services with due consideration
given to maintaining the independence of the principal accountant.  None
of the hours expended on the audit of the 2006 financial statements were
attributed to work performed by persons who were not employed full time on a
permanent basis by Eide Bailly LLP.  

34     

PART IV   

   Item 15.                                     EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

  (a)              Documents
filed as part of this report 

  1.                Consolidated
Financial Statements 

  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm  

  Consolidated Statements
of Operations for the Years Ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004  

  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 31, 2006
and 2005  

  Consolidated Statements
of Changes in Members  Investments and Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended
August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004  

  Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the Years Ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004  

  Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements  

  2.                Financial
Statement Schedules 

  None  

  3.                                          The
exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed in the Exhibit Index on
pages E-1 to E-4 of this report 

  (b)              Exhibits 

  The response to this
portion of Item 15 is included as a separate section of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.  

35     

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on
November  29, 2006 .  

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY  

By:  

/s/ JAMES J. HORVATH  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

Dated: November  29, 2006   

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities
and on the dates indicated.  

36  

APPENDIX
A   

   INDEX
TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

A-  1     

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To the Audit
Committee of American Crystal Sugar Company  

  Moorhead, Minnesota  

  We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of  American Crystal Sugar Company    and
Subsidiaries  as of August 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, changes in members  investments and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years ended August 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004.  These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in
accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes consideration of internal
controls over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting.  Accordingly,
we do not express such an opinion.  An
audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of  American Crystal Sugar Company and Subsidiaries  as of
August 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  

A-  2     

American Crystal Sugar Company   

   Consolidated Statements of Operations     

   For the Years Ended August 31   

   (In
Thousands)   

The Accompanying Notes are an Integral Part of These Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

A-  3     

American Crystal Sugar Company   

   Consolidated Balance Sheets     

   August 31   

   (In
Thousands)   

   Assets   

The Accompanying Notes are an Integral Part of These Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

A-  4     

Liabilities
and Members  Investments   

The Accompanying Notes are an Integral Part of These Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

A-  5     

American Crystal Sugar Company   

   Consolidated Statements of Changes in Members 
Investments and Comprehensive Income     

   For the Years Ended August 31   

   (In
Thousands)   

The Accompanying Notes
are an Integral Part of These Consolidated Financial Statements.  

A-  6     

American Crystal Sugar Company   

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows     

   For the Years Ended August 31   

   (In
Thousands)   

Non-Cash
Investing and Financing activities:   In September 2003, a note
payable in the amount of $969,000 was issued in connection with the acquisition
by Crab Creek Sugar Company. 

  The Accompanying Notes
are an Integral Part of These Consolidated Financial Statements.  

A-  7     

American Crystal Sugar Company   

   Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements     

   (1) PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:   

   Organization   

   American Crystal Sugar Company 
(the Company) is a Minnesota agricultural cooperative corporation which
processes and markets sugar, sugarbeet pulp, molasses, concentrated separated
by-product (CSB), betaine and seed. 
Business done with its shareholders (members) constitutes  patronage
business  as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, and the net proceeds
therefrom are credited to members  investments in the form of unit retains or
distributed to members in the form of payments for sugarbeets.  Members are paid the net amounts realized
from the current year s production less member operating costs determined in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  

   Basis of Presentation   

  The Company s consolidated financial statements are
comprised of American Crystal Sugar Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries
Sidney Sugars Incorporated (Sidney Sugars) and Crab Creek Sugar Company (Crab
Creek), and ProGold Limited Liability Company (ProGold), a limited liability
company in which the Company holds a 51 percent ownership interest.  

  All material inter-company transactions have been
eliminated.  

   Revenue Recognition   

  Revenue from the sale of sugar, agri-products and seed
is recorded when the product is delivered to the customer.  Operating lease revenue is recognized as
earned ratably over the term of the lease.  

   Operating Lease   

  ProGold owns a corn wet milling facility which it
leases under an operating lease. 
Payments are to be received monthly under the lease, which runs through
December 31, 2007.  The lease contains
provisions for extension or modification of the lease terms at the end of the
lease period.  The lease also contains
provisions for increased payments to be received during the lease period
related to the facility s profitability and capital additions.  

   Cash and Cash Equivalents   

  The Company considers all highly liquid investments
with a maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash
equivalents.  The Company places its
temporary cash investments with high credit quality financial institutions.  At times, such investments may be in excess
of the applicable insurance limit.  

   Accounts Receivable and Credit
Policies   

  The Company grants credit, individually and through
its marketing cooperatives, to its customers, which are primarily companies in
the food processing industry located throughout the United States.  

  Trade receivables are
uncollateralized customer obligations due under normal trade terms requiring
payment within 15 to 90 days from the invoice date.  The receivables are non-interest bearing.  Trade receivables are stated at the amount
billed to the customer.  Payments of
trade receivables are  

A-  8     

allocated
to the specific invoices identified on the customer s remittance advice or, if
unspecified, are applied to the earliest unpaid invoices.  

  Ongoing credit evaluations
of customers  financial condition are performed and the Company maintains a
reserve for potential credit losses.  The
carrying amount of trade receivables is reduced by a valuation allowance that
reflects the Company s best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected.  

   Inventories   

  Sugar, pulp, molasses and other agri-products
inventories are valued at estimated net realizable value.  Maintenance parts and supplies and sugarbeet
seed inventories are valued at the lower of average cost or market.  Sugarbeets are valued at the projected gross
per-ton beet payment related to that year s crop.  

   Net Property
and Equipment   

  Property and equipment are recorded at cost.  Indirect costs and construction period
interest are capitalized as a component of the cost of qualified assets.  Property and equipment are depreciated for
financial reporting purposes principally using straight-line methods with
estimated useful lives ranging from 4 to 33 years.  

    Net Property
and Equipment  Held for Lease   

  Net property and equipment held for lease are stated
at cost.  Depreciation on assets placed
in service is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the individual assets, ranging from 5 to 40 years.  

   Impairment
of Long Lived Assets   

  The Company reviews its long lived assets for
impairment whenever events indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
not be recoverable.  An impairment loss
is recorded when the sum of the future cash flows is less than the carrying amount
of the asset.  An impairment loss is
measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its
fair value. There were no impairment losses incurred during the year.  

   Related
Parties   

  The following organizations are considered related
parties for financial reporting purposes: United Sugars Corporation (United);
Midwest Agri-Commodities Company (Midwest); and Crystech, LLC (Crystech).  

   Investments   

  Investments in CoBank, ACB are stated at cost plus
unredeemed patronage refunds received in the form of capital stock.  Investments in marketing cooperatives and
Crystech are accounted for using the equity method.  

   Members 
Investments   

  Preferred and Common Stock - The ownership of common
and preferred stock is restricted to a  farm operator  as defined by the bylaws
of the Company.  Each shareholder may own
only one share of common stock and is entitled to one vote in the affairs of
the Company.  Each shareholder is
required to grow a specified number of acres of sugarbeets in proportion to the
shares of preferred stock owned.  The
preferred shares are non-voting.  All
transfers of stock must be approved by the Company s Board of Directors and any
shareholder desiring to sell stock must first offer it to the Company for
repurchase  

A-  9     

at its par value.  The Company has never exercised this repurchase
option for preferred stock.  The bylaws
do not allow dividends to be paid on either the common or preferred stock.  

  Unit Retains - The bylaws authorize the Company s
Board of Directors to require additional direct capital investments by members
in the form of a variable unit retain per ton of up to a maximum of 10 percent
of the weighted average gross per ton beet payment.  All refunds and retirements of unit retains
must be approved by the Board of Directors.  

  Equity Retention   The Payment-In-Kind (PIK)
Certificate Purchase Agreement authorizes the Company to require additional
direct capital investments by members participating in the PIK program. The
amount of the equity contribution is calculated per hundredweight of PIK
certificates and is approximately equivalent (on a Company-wide average basis)
to the unit retain declared by the Company on the corresponding year s
sugarbeet crop.  All refunds and
retirements of equity retains must be approved by the Board of Directors.  

  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) -
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) represents the cumulative net
increase (decrease) in equity related to the recording of the minimum pension
liability adjustment.  Consistent with
the Company s treatment of income taxes related to member-source income and
expenses, accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) does not include any
adjustment for income taxes.  

  Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit) - Retained
earnings represents the cumulative net income (loss) resulting from non-member
business and, for years prior to 1996, the difference between member income as
determined for financial reporting purposes and for federal income tax
reporting purposes.  

   Interest Expense, Net   

  The Company earns patronage dividends from CoBank, ACB
based on the Company s share of the net income earned by CoBank, ACB.  These patronage dividends are applied against
interest expense.  

   Income Taxes   

  The Company is a non-exempt cooperative for federal
income tax purposes.  As such, the
Company is subject to corporate income taxes on its net income from non-member
sources.  The provision for income taxes
relates to the results of operations from non-member business, state income
taxes and certain other permanent differences between financial and income tax
reporting. The Company also has various temporary differences between financial
and income tax reporting, most notable of which is depreciation.  

  Deferred tax assets, less any applicable valuation
allowance, and deferred tax liabilities are included in the financial
statements at currently enacted income tax rates applicable to the period in
which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or
settled.  

   Accounting Estimates   

  The preparation of the financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could
differ from those estimates.  

A-  10     

Business Risk   

  The financial results of the Company s operations may
be directly and materially affected by many factors, including prevailing prices
of sugar and agri-products, the Company s ability to market its sugar
competitively, the weather, government programs and regulations, and costs and
expenses.  

   Shipping and Handling Costs   

  The costs incurred for the shipping and handling of
products sold are classified in the financial statements as a selling expense
on the Statements of Operations. Shipping and handling costs were $130.6
million, $127.4 million and $129.1 million for the years ended August 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  

   Deferred Costs and Product Values   

  All costs incurred prior to the beginning of the
Company s fiscal year that relate to receiving and processing the subsequent
year s sugarbeet crop are deferred. 
Similarly, the net realizable values of products produced prior to the
beginning of the Company s fiscal year that relate to the subsequent year s
sugarbeet crop are deferred.  The net
result of these deferred costs and product values as of August 31, 2006 of $2.9
million has been recorded in the Company s balance sheet in  Other Current
Liabilities.   There were no deferred
costs or deferred product values as of August 31, 2005 or 2004.  

   Recently Issued Accounting
Pronouncements   

  The Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) has recently issued Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . 
This Statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. 
This statement becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of
fiscal 2009.  The Company does not expect
that the adoption of this statement will have a material effect on the Company s
financial statements.  

   The Financial Accounting
Standards Board has also recently issued Statement No. 158,   Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
132(R) .   This Statement will require the
Company to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit
postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial
position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which
the changes occur through comprehensive income. 
This requirement becomes
effective for the Company as of August 31, 2007.  This Statement will also require the
Company to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of its year-end
statement of financial position.  This requirement becomes effective for the
Company as of August 31, 2009.  The
Company expects that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact
on Prepaid Pension Expense and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/Loss on
the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

   The Financial Accounting
Standards Board has also recently issued Interpretation No. 48,   Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109 .  This
Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in the financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No.
109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.    This interpretation becomes effective for the
Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. 
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this interpretation
will have a material effect on the Company s financial statements. 

A-  11  

(2)
RECEIVABLES:   

  There were two customers attributable to the Company
that accounted for 13 percent and 16 percent, respectively, of the Company s
total receivables as of August 31, 2006. 
There was no single customer attributable to the Company that accounted
for 10 percent or more of the Company s total receivables as of August 31, 2005
or that accounted for 10 percent or more of the revenues of the Company for the
years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 or 2004.  

   (3)    INVENTORIES:  

  The major components of
inventories as of August 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:  

(4) NET
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:   

  Indirect costs capitalized were $1.1 million, $1.0
million and $1.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  Construction period interest capitalized was
$ .8 million, $ .6 million and $ .3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Depreciation expense was $42.9 million, $41.9 million and $41.6
million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company had outstanding
commitments totaling $12.4 million as of August 31, 2006, for equipment and
construction contracts related to various capital projects.  

   (5) NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT HELD FOR LEASE:   

   ProGold owns a corn
wet-milling facility that it leases under an operating lease which runs through
December 31, 2007.   Under the
terms of the operating lease, the lessee manages all aspects of the operations
of the ProGold corn wet-milling facility.  

  Net Property and Equipment
Held for Lease are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The
components of Net Property and Equipment Held for Lease as of August 31, 2006
and 2005 are shown below:  

A-  12     

Future minimum payments to
be received under the lease are as follows:  

(6)    INVESTMENTS IN MARKETING COOPERATIVES:  

  The Company has a 65 percent ownership interest and a
33 1/3 percent voting interest in United. 
The investment is accounted for using the equity method.  All sugar products produced are sold by
United as an agent for the Company.  The
amount of sales and related costs to be recognized by each owner of United is
allocated based on its pro rata share of sugar production for the year.  The owners provide United with cash advances
on an ongoing basis for operating and marketing expenses incurred by
United.  The Company had outstanding
advances to United of $4.3 million and $14.6 million as of August 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively.  The Company provides
administrative services for United and is reimbursed for costs incurred.  The Company was reimbursed $1.2 million, $1.1
million and $1.0 million for services provided during 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

  The Company has a 53 percent ownership interest and a
25 percent voting interest in Midwest. 
The investment is accounted for using the equity method.  Substantially all sugarbeet pulp, molasses
and other agri-products produced are sold by Midwest as an agent for the
Company.  The amount of sales and related
costs to be recognized by each owner of Midwest is allocated based on its pro
rata share of production for each product for the year.  The owners provide Midwest with cash advances
on an ongoing basis for operating and marketing expenses incurred by
Midwest.  The Company had outstanding
advances from Midwest of $2.7 million and $4.1 million as of August 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively.  The Company
provides administrative services for Midwest and is reimbursed for costs incurred.  The Company was reimbursed $121,000, $95,000
and $71,000 for services provided during 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  The owners of Midwest are
guarantors of the short-term line of credit Midwest has with CoBank, ACB.  As of August 31, 2006, Midwest had
outstanding short-term debt with CoBank, ACB of $3.6 million, of which $2.1
million was guaranteed by the Company.  

   (7)    CRYSTECH, LLC:  

  Crystech is a special purpose entity that operates a
molasses desugarization facility at the Company s Hillsboro, North Dakota,
sugar factory together with certain sugar processing equipment located at the
Hillsboro, North Dakota, and Moorhead, Minnesota, sugar factories.  The Company controls 50 percent of Crystech
and accounts for its investment using the equity method.  

  The Company has a tolling services agreement with
Crystech whereby the Company pays for tolling services for processing sugarbeet
molasses delivered to Crystech with title and risk of loss throughout the
process maintained by the Company.  The
tolling agreement expires in 2012 and is subject to early termination by the
Company in the event that specified plant performance is not maintained.  

  On a cumulative basis, the Company receives an annual
allocation of Crystech s net income equal to 7.5 percent of the initial value
of the Preferred Equity contribution by the Company or approximately $1.0
million.  The Company had outstanding
payables to Crystech of approximately $4.3 million and $3.9 million as of
August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to the tolling services
agreement.  Following is summary
financial information for Crystech:  

A-  13     

(8) LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM DEBT:   

  The long-term debt
outstanding as of August 31, 2006 and 2005 is summarized below:   

Minimum annual principal
payments for the next five years are as follows:  

A-  14     

The Company has a long-term debt line of credit with
CoBank, ACB of $236.4 million, of which $116.3 million in loans and $52.1
million in long-term letters of credit were outstanding as of August 31,
2006.  The unused long-term line of
credit as of August 31, 2006 was $68.0 million.  

  The short-term debt outstanding as of August 31, 2006
and 2005 is summarized below:  

During the year ended August 31, 2006, the Company
borrowed from CoBank, ACB, and issued commercial paper to meet its short-term
borrowing requirements.  As of August 31,
2006, the Company had available short-term lines of credit totaling $301.0
million, of which $5.3 million in commercial paper and $5.8 million in
short-term letters of credit were outstanding. 
The unused short-term line of credit as of August 31, 2006 was $289.9
million.  

  Maximum borrowings, average borrowing levels and
average interest rates for short-term debt for the years ended August 31, 2006
and 2005, follow:  

The terms of the loan agreements contain prepayment
penalties along with certain covenants related to, among other matters, the:
level of working capital; ratio of term liabilities to members  investments;
current ratio; level of term debt to net funds generated; and investment in
CoBank, ACB stock in amounts prescribed by the bank.  Substantially all non-current assets are
pledged to the senior lenders to provide security to support the Company s
seasonal and long-term financing.  As of
August 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with the terms of the loan
agreements.  

  Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized, was $19.6
million, $20.0 million and $21.1 million for the years ended August 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  

   (9)     OPERATING LEASES : 

  The Company is party to operating leases for such
items as rail cars, product storage tanks, computer hardware and vehicles.  Cargill, Incorporated has assumed
responsibility for the payments on a rail car lease for the duration of the
operating lease with ProGold, described in Note 1.  After the lease with Cargill, Incorporated
expires, responsibility for the rail car lease payments reverts back to
ProGold.  Operating lease expense was $
1.6 million, $ 1.4 million and $ 1.4 million for years ended August 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  Future
minimum payments under these obligations are as follows:  

A-  15     

(10)    EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:  

   Company-Sponsored Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Post-Retirement Benefit Plans   

  Substantially all employees who meet eligibility
requirements of age and length of service are covered by a Company-sponsored
retirement plan.  As of August 31, 2006,
the pension plans were funded as required by the funding standards set forth by
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).  The Company also has non-qualified
supplemental executive retirement plans for certain employees.  

  The following schedule reflects
the percentage of pension plan assets by asset class as of the latest
measurement date, May 31, 2006:  

   Percentage of Pension Plan Assets by Asset Class as of May
31, 2006   

The Investment Committee has the
responsibility of managing the operations and administration of American
Crystal Sugar Company s retirement plans and trust.  The Investment Committee has an investment
policy for the pension plan assets that establishes target asset allocations as
shown above.  The Investment Committee is
committed to diversification to reduce the risk of large losses.  To that end, the Investment Committee has
adopted policies requiring that each asset class will be diversified and equity
exposure will be limited to 85% of the total portfolio value. The stated goal
is for each component of the plan to earn a rate of return greater than its
corresponding benchmark.  Progress of the
plan against its return objectives will be measured over a full market cycle.  

  To develop the expected
long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the
historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset
class, as well as, the target asset allocation of the pension portfolio.  This resulted in the selection of the 8.25%
long-term rate of return on assets assumption.  

  The development of the discount
rate was based on a bond matching model whereby a hypothetical portfolio of
bonds with an  AA  or better rating by a nationally recognized debt rating
agency was constructed to match the expected benefit payments under the Company s
pension plans through the year 2035.  The
reinvestment rate for benefit cash flow occurring after 2035 was discounted
back to the year 2035 at a rate consistent with the yields on long-term
zero-coupon bonds. The resulting present value was treated as additional
benefit cash flow for the year 2035 and consistently applied as any other
benefit cash flow during the bond matching process.  

  The following schedule reflects
the expected pension and post-retirement benefit payments during each of the
next five years and the aggregate for the following five years:  

A-  16     

The Company expects to
contribute approximately $4.0 million to the pension plans and $680,000 to the
post-retirement plans during the next fiscal year.  

  The Company has a medical plan and a Medicare
supplement plan which are available to union retirees and certain non-union
retirees.  The costs of these plans are
shared by the Company and plan participants.   The
Company s post-retirement plan for certain non-union employees currently
coordinates with Medicare s medical coverage and provides tiered prescription
drug coverage.  The Company has
determined that this plan is actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D and
therefore qualifies for the Federal subsidy provision in the Medicare
Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003.  This provision allows the Company to take a
tax deduction for 28 percent of the dollars spent providing prescription drug
coverage beginning in calendar year 2006. 
In accordance with FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS-106-2, the Company recognized
a reduction in the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation in fiscal
2005 of approximately $4.6 million due to the effect of the subsidy. 

A-  17     

The following schedules provide the components of the Net Periodic
Pension and Post-Retirement Costs for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004:  

    Components of Net Periodic Pension Cost    

Components of Net Periodic Post-Retirement Cost    

For measurement purposes, a 10.0 percent annual rate
of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare benefits for
participants under age 65 was assumed for 2007. 
The rate is assumed to decline to 5.0 percent over the next five
years.  For participants age 65 and
older, an 11.0 percent annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered healthcare benefits was assumed for 2007.  The rate is assumed to decline to 6.0 percent
over the next five years.  

  Assumed healthcare trends can have a significant effect
on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. 
A one percent change in the assumed healthcare trend rates would have
the following effects:  

(In Thousands)   

1% Increase   

1% Decrease   

Effect on total
  service and interest cost components of net periodic post-retirement benefit
  costs  

$  

643  

$  

(513  

)  

Effect on the
  accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation  

$  

3,978  

$  

(3,357  

)  

A-  18     

The following schedules set forth a reconciliation of
the changes in the plans  benefit obligation and fair value of assets for the
years ending August 31, 2006 and 2005 and a statement of the funded status and
amounts recognized in the Balance Sheets as of August 31, 2006 and 2005:  

Change in Additional
Minimum Liability (for the current year)    

A-  19  

The assumptions used in the measurement of the Company s benefit
obligations are shown below:  

    Weighted Average
Assumptions as of August 31,    

1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan   

  During 2005, the granting
of additional contract rights under the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan (1999
Plan) was discontinued with the adoption of the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(2005 Plan).  All vested contract rights
as of December 31, 2004, remained in the 1999 Plan while all unvested contract rights
were transferred to the 2005 Plan. The value of the contract rights remaining
in the 1999 Plan is related to the value of preferred shares of the Company as
determined by the Board of Directors.  As
of August 31, 2006, there were 455.07 vested contract rights remaining in the
1999 Plan.  At August 31, 2006, the Board
of Directors increased the value of these contract rights from $1,800 to $1,900
per contract right.  

   2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan   

  The 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan provides deferred compensation to certain key executives of the
Company.  The plan creates financial
incentives that are based upon contract rights which are available to the
executive under the terms of the plan, the value of which is related to the
value of preferred shares of the Company as determined by the Board of
Directors.  During 2006, 12.63 vested
contract rights were exercised at a stated value of $1,800 per contract
right.  In 2006, 306.05 contract rights
were granted at a stated value of $1,900 per contract right.  At August 31, 2006, the Board of Directors
increased the value of the 659.92 contract rights previously granted from
$1,800 to $1,900 per contract right.  As
of August 31, 2006, there were 965.97 contract rights issued and outstanding at
a stated value of $1,900 per contract right, of which 473.01 were vested.  

   Defined
Contribution Plans   

  The Company has qualified
401(k) plans for all eligible employees. 
The plans provide for immediate vesting of benefits.  Participants may contribute a percentage of
their gross earnings each pay period as provided in the participation
agreement.  The Company matches the
non-union and eligible union year-round participants  contributions up to 4
percent and 2 percent, respectively, of their gross earnings.  The Company s contributions to these plans
totaled $1.8 million, $1.7 million and $1.6 million for the years ended August
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

A-  20     

(11)  
 MEMBERS  INVESTMENTS:  

  The following
schedule details the Preferred Stock and Common Stock as of August 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004:  

(12)    SEGMENT
REPORTING:  

  The Company has identified
two reportable segments: Sugar and Leasing. 
The sugar segment is engaged primarily in the production and marketing
of sugar from sugarbeets.  It also sells
agri-products and sugarbeet seed.  The
leasing segment is engaged in the leasing of a corn wet milling plant used in
the production of high-fructose corn syrup. 
The segments are managed separately. 
There are no inter-segment sales. 
The leasing segment has a major customer that accounts for all of that
segment s revenue.  

  Summarized financial
information concerning the Company s reportable segments is shown below:  

A-  21     

(13)    FAIR VALUE
OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:  

  The fair value of financial instruments is generally
defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation
sale.  Quoted market prices are generally
not available for the Company s financial instruments.  Fair values are based on judgments regarding
anticipated cash flows, future expected loss experience, current economic
conditions, risk characteristics of various financial instruments and other
factors.  These  

A-  22     

estimates involve
uncertainties and matters of judgment, and therefore, cannot be determined with
precision.  Changes in assumptions could
significantly affect the estimates.  

   Long-Term Debt   - Based upon
current borrowing rates with similar maturities, the fair value of the
long-term debt is approximately $229.0 million in comparison to the carrying
value of $221.0 million. 

   Investments in CoBank, ACB, Investments in
Marketing Cooperatives, and Investments in Crystech, LLC   -
The Company believes it is not practical to estimate the fair value of these
investments without incurring excessive costs because there is no established
market for these securities and equity interests, and it is inappropriate to
estimate future cash flows which are largely dependent on future earnings of
these organizations. 

   (14)    INCOME TAXES:  

  Total income tax payments were $290,000; $336,000; and
$70,000 for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  As of August 31, 2006, the Company had accumulated
approximately $24.5 million of net operating loss carry-forwards for income tax
reporting purposes.  The net operating
loss carry-forwards expire in the years 2012 through 2023.  The Company s net deferred tax liability
included in Other Liabilities on the Company s Balance Sheets as of August 31,
2006 and 2005 is reflected below:  

Income tax expense
for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:  

A reconciliation of the Company s effective tax rates
for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is shown below:  

A-  23     

(15)    ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:  

  The Company is subject to extensive federal and state
environmental laws and regulations with respect to water and air quality, solid
waste disposal and odor and noise control. 
The Company conducts an ongoing compliance program designed to meet
these environmental laws and regulations. 
The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with
applicable environmental laws and regulations. 
From time to time, however, the Company may be involved in
investigations or determinations regarding non-material matters that may arise.  

   The Company s East Grand
Forks, Minnesota factory has recently experienced hydrogen sulfide emissions
from its water treatment ponds that have exceeded permissible limits.  The Company is working with the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and is aggressively addressing the situation.  While the Company may be assessed penalties
and/or fines related to this occurrence, as of the date of this report none
have been assessed.  Any potential
penalties and/or fines are not expected to be material to the Company.  Capital expenditures will be required to
prevent future occurrences of the emissions. 
 The Company s fiscal 2007 budget includes capital expenditures of
approximately $4.0 million at 
the East Grand Forks factory to address this situation. The amount and timing
of any additional capital expenditures that may be required is not currently
known. 

  In addition to the amount discussed above for the East
Grand Forks factory, the Company s fiscal 2007 budget also includes capital
expenditures of approximately $1.0 million for environmentally related projects
at the Company s other factory locations.  

   (16)    LEGAL MATTERS:  

  As of the date of this
report, four administrative proceedings have been brought against the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA) seeking reversal of prior decisions
regarding the determination and transfer of sugar marketing allocations made by
the USDA.  While the Company was not a
party to any of these administrative proceedings, it was, solely or in
coordination with other sugar processors, an intervenor in those administrative
proceedings.  As of the date of this
report, each of the proceedings has completed the administrative process and
the decisions by the chief judicial officer of the USDA in each were such that
the Company would not experience a reduction in its marketing allocations.  Any decision made by the chief judicial
officer of the USDA can be further appealed in federal court.  An appeal of one of the decisions was
subsequently filed by another company. 
If the decision by the chief judicial officer of the USDA in this case
is overturned, it could result in the Company experiencing a reduction in
marketing allocations equal to the loss of approximately 25,000 acres in future
crop years assuming no other related factors were to change.  

A-  24  

EXHIBIT
INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT  
ON FORM 10-K 
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 2006   

Item No. 

Method of Filing   

3.1  

Restated Articles of Incorporation of American
  Crystal Sugar Company  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) from the
  Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-83868), declared
  effective November 23, 1994.  

3.2  

Restated By-laws of American Crystal Sugar Company  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) from the
  Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-11693), declared
  effective November 13, 1996.  

4.1  

Restated Articles of Incorporation of American
  Crystal Sugar Company  

See Exhibit 3.1  

4.2  

Restated By-laws of American Crystal Sugar Company  

See Exhibit 3.2  

10.1  

Form of Operating Agreement between Registrant and
  ProGold Limited Liability Company  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) from the
  Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-83868), declared
  effective November 23, 1994.  

10.2  

Form of Member Control Agreement between Registrant
  and ProGold Limited Liability Company  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) from the
  Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-83868), declared
  effective November 23, 1994.  

10.3  

Pledge Agreement between Registrant and First Union
  Trust Company, NA  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ee) from the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 1998.  

10.4  

Indemnity Agreement between Registrant, Newcourt
  Capital USA Inc., Crystech, LLC and Crystech Senior Lender Trust  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ff) from the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 1998.  

E-  1     

E-  2     

E-  3     

+              Confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, has been granted with respect
to designated portions of this document.  

  ++           A management contract or compensatory
plan required to be filed with this report.  

E-  4  

<EX-10.24>
 2
 a06-24441_1ex10d24.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit
10.24   

   AMENDED AND RESTATED LOAN
AGREEMENT   

   between   

   AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR
COMPANY,  
as Borrower,   

   and   

   COBANK, ACB,  
as Lender   

   July 31, 2006   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

i     

ii     

iii     

Annexes  

Annex I  

Pricing Grid  

Schedules   

Schedule 3.l(a)  

Landlord/Bailee Locations  

Schedule 4.6  

Litigation  

Schedule 4.7  

Environmental Matters  

Schedule 4.18  

Subsidiaries  

Schedule 6.11  

Existing Investments  

Schedule 6.12  

Existing Indebtedness  

Schedule 6.13  

Existing Liens  

Schedule 6.14  

Existing Contingent Obligations  

Exhibits   

Exhibit A-l  

Form of Revolving Note  

Exhibit A-2  

Form of Term Note T01  

Exhibit A-3  

Form of Term Note T01NP  

Exhibit A-4  

Form of Term Note T06  

Exhibit B  

Borrowing Base Formula  

Exhibit C  

Form of Borrowing Base Certificate  

Exhibit D  

Form of Compliance Certificate  

Exhibit E  

Form of Bid Request  

iv  

AMENDED AND RESTATED LOAN
AGREEMENT   

  THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED
LOAN AGREEMENT (this  Loan Agreement ), dated as of July 31, 2006, is by and
between AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, a Minnesota cooperative corporation (  Borrower  ),
and COBANK, ACB, a federally chartered instrumentality under the Farm Credit
Act of 1971, as amended (  Lender  ). This Loan Agreement amends and
restates that certain Amended and Restated Master Loan Agreement dated as of
July 21, 2003, which amended and restated that certain Master Loan Agreement
dated as of March 31, 2000.  

   ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS   

  Section 1.1  Defined
Terms . As used in this Agreement the following terms shall have the
following respective meanings (and such meanings shall be equally applicable to
both the singular and plural form of the terms defined, as the context may
require):  

    Adjusted LIBOR Rate  :
With respect to each day, the rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next
one hundredth of one percent) determined by dividing the LIBOR Rate in effect
on such day by 1.00 minus the LIBOR Reserve Percentage.  

    Advance  : Any
portion of the outstanding Loans as to which one of the available interest rate
options and, if pertinent, an Interest Period, is applicable. Subject to the
terms and conditions hereof, an Advance may be a LIBOR Rate Advance, a Quoted
Rate Advance or a Base Rate Advance.  

    Affiliate  : When
used with reference to any Person, (a) each Person that, directly or
indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Person
referred to, (b) each Person which beneficially owns or holds, directly or
indirectly, five percent or more of any class of voting Equity Interests of the
Person referred to, (c) each Person, five percent or more of the voting Equity
Interests (or if such Person is not a corporation, five percent or more of the
equity interest) of which is beneficially owned or held, directly or
indirectly, by the Person referred to, and (d) each of such Person s officers,
directors, joint venturers and partners. The term control (including the terms  controlled
by  and  under common control with ) means the possession, directly, of the
power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the
Person in question.  

    Applicable Commitment
Fee Percentage  : The Applicable Margin at which the Term Loan Commitment
Fees accrue, as set forth and described in  Annex I .  

    Applicable Margin  :
Subject to the last sentence of this definition, with respect to computation of
the applicable interest rate or the Applicable Commitment Fee Percentage on
Advances under the Term Loans, as the case may be, the margin payable by
Borrower with respect thereto, as set forth and described in  Annex I .
The initial Applicable Margin shall be  

determined by reference to Borrower s Compliance
Certificate and related financial statements as of the Closing Date, and
continuing each Fiscal Quarter thereafter, the Applicable Margin shall be
determined by the Compliance Certificate required by Section 5.1 as of Borrower s
last Fiscal Quarter;  provided ,  however,  that any adjustment in
the Applicable Margin shall not become effective until the Agent shall have
received the Compliance Certificate and related financial statements relating
to the last Fiscal Quarter end pursuant to  Sections 5.1(c)  and  (d) 
hereof. If a Compliance Certificate and related financial statements of
Borrower and a related certification of Borrower pursuant to  Sections 5.1(c) 
and  (d)  necessary to establish the Applicable Margin hereunder are not
received by the Agent on or prior to the date required pursuant to  Sections
5.1(c)    and  (d)  hereof,
at the Lender s sole discretion, the Applicable Margin shall be determined at
the highest level described in  Annex I  and shall remain in effect until
one Banking Day after such time as the required financial statements are
received.  

    Average Interest
Expense  : Interest Expense for the most recent twelve (12) Fiscal Quarters,
divided by four (4).  

    Average Net Funds
Generated  : The sum of the following for the most recent twelve (12) Fiscal
Quarters, divided by four (4):  

  (a)                                     Unit
retains, retained patronage, depreciation and amortization, net income from
non-member business and member business tax timing differences; decrease in
investments in other cooperatives (excluding Subsidiaries), and net revenue
from sale of stock, 

  minus  

  (b)                                    Increase
in investments in other cooperatives (excluding Subsidiaries); net loss from
non-member business and member business tax timing differences, provision for
income tax, and members  investment retirements. 

    Banking Day  : Any
day of the year on which commercial banks in New York, New York and Denver,
Colorado are not required or authorized to close.  

    Base Rate  : That
rate in effect from day to day defined as the  prime rate  as published from
time to time in the Eastern Edition of  The Wall Street Journal  as the
average prime lending rate for seventy-five percent (75%) of the United States 
thirty (30) largest commercial banks. If  The Wall Street Journal  shall
cease publication or cease publishing the  prime rate  on a regular basis, such
other regularly published average prime rate applicable to such commercial
banks as is acceptable to the Lender.  

    Base Rate Advance  :
An Advance with respect to which the interest rate is determined by reference
to the Base Rate.  

2     

Board  : The Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any successor thereto.  

    Borrower  : As
defined in the opening paragraph hereof.  

    Borrowing Base  :
As determined in accordance with the formula set forth in  Exhibit B  hereto.  

    Borrowing Base
Certificate  : A certificate in the form of  Exhibit C  hereto.  

    Borrowing Base
Deficiency  : At the time of any determination, the amount, if any, by which
Total Revolving Outstandings exceed the Borrowing Base.  

    Broken Funding
Surcharge  : As defined in Section 2.24.  

    Capital Expenditures  :
For any period, the sum of all amounts that would, in accordance with GAAP, be
included as additions to property, plant and equipment on a consolidated
statement of cash flows for the Borrower during such period, in respect of (a)
the acquisition, construction, improvement, replacement or betterment of land,
buildings, machinery, equipment or of any other fixed assets or leaseholds, (b)
to the extent related to and not included in (a) above, materials, contract
labor (excluding expenditures properly chargeable to repairs or maintenance in
accordance with GAAP), and (c) other capital expenditures and other uses
recorded as capital expenditures or similar terms having substantially the same
effect.  

    Capitalization  :
The sum of shareholders  equity and Indebtedness.  

    Capitalization Ratio  :
For any period of determination, the ratio of  

  (a)                                     long
term debt in accordance with GAAP (excluding current maturities), 

  to  

  (b)                                    the
sum of long term debt (excluding current maturities)  plus  equity, all in
accordance with GAAP. 

    Capitalized Lease  :
A lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) real or personal
property with respect to which at least a portion of the rent or other amounts
thereon constitute Capitalized Lease Obligations.  

    Capitalized Lease
Obligations  : As to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent
or other amounts under a lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to
use) real or personal property which obligations are required to be classified
and accounted for as a capital lease on a balance sheet of such Person under
GAAP (including Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 of the
Financial Accounting Standards Board), and, for purposes of  

3     

this Agreement, the amount of such obligations shall
be the capitalized amount thereof, determined in accordance with GAAP
(including such Statement No. 13).  

    Change of Control  :
The occurrence, after the Closing Date, of any of the following circumstances:
(a) any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert (other than the current
holders of the Equity Interests of the Borrower) acquiring beneficial ownership
(within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Equity
Interests of the Borrower representing 50% or more of the combined voting power
of all Equity Interests of Borrower entitled to vote in the election of
directors; or (b) any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert (other
than the current holders of the Equity Interests of the Borrower) acquiring by
contract or otherwise, or entering into a contract or arrangement which upon
consummation will result in its or their acquisition of, control over Equity
Interests of the Borrower representing 50% or more of the combined voting power
of all Equity Interests of Borrower entitled to vote in the election of
directors.  

    Charges  : As
defined in Section 8.18.  

    Closing Date  :
The date in the opening paragraph hereof.  

    CoBank Equities  :
As defined in Section 2.27.  

    Code  : The
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

    Commitments  : The
Revolving Loan, Term Loans and Existing Loans.  

    Contingent Obligation  :
With respect to any Person at the time of any determination, without
duplication, any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person
guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of
any other Person (the  primary obligor ) in any manner, whether directly or
otherwise: (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase
or payment of) such Indebtedness or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds
for the purchase of) any direct or indirect security therefor, (b) to purchase
property, securities, Equity Interests or services for the purpose of assuring
the owner of such Indebtedness of the payment of such Indebtedness, (c) to
maintain working capital, equity capital or other financial statement condition
of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such
Indebtedness or otherwise to protect the owner thereof against loss in respect
thereof, or (d) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any manner the
owner of such Indebtedness of the payment of such Indebtedness or to protect
the owner against loss in respect thereof; provided, that the term  Contingent
Obligation  shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit, in each
case in the ordinary course of business.  

    Current Assets  :
As of any date, the consolidated current assets of the Borrower, determined in
accordance with GAAP.  

4     

Current Liabilities  :
As of any date, the consolidated current liabilities of the Borrower,
determined in accordance with GAAP.  

    Default  : The
occurrence or existence of (a) an event which through the passage of time or
the service of notice or both would (assuming no action is taken by the
Borrower or any other Person to cure the same) mature into an Event of Default,
(b) an event which requires neither the passage of time nor the service of
notice to mature into an Event of Default, or (c) the occurrence of a breach or
a default of any Material Indebtedness.  

    Default Rate  :
The rate that is equal to the Base Rate then in effect plus two percent (2%).  

    Eligible Accounts
Receivable :  Accounts Receivables of the Borrower and all Subsidiaries which:
(1) arise from the sale and delivery of inventory on ordinary trade terms; (2)
are evidenced by an invoice; (3) are net of any credit, trade or other
allowance given to the account debtor; (4) are not owing by an account debtor
who has become insolvent or is the subject of any bankruptcy, reorganization,
liquidation or like proceeding; (5) are not subject to any offset or deduction;
(6) are not owing by an affiliate of the Borrower; (7) are not owing by an
obligor located outside of the U.S. unless the receivable is supported by a
letter of credit issued by a bank acceptable to the Lender; and (8) are not
government receivables. the above provisions notwithstanding, Accounts
Receivables shall also exclude (i) any accounts that are past due more than 90 days,
and (ii) any contra account regardless of the date.  

    Eligible Net
Inventory  : Inventory of the Borrower as determined on the basis of  Net
Realizable Value,  less crop payments owing to members and non-members of the
Borrower.  Net Realizable Value  is defined as the expected selling price of an
inventory item less expected costs to complete and dispose, as determined in
accordance with GAAP.  

    Equity Interests  :
All shares, interests, participation or other equivalents, however designated,
of or in a corporation or limited liability company, whether or not voting,
including but not limited to common stock, member interests, warrants,
preferred stock, convertible debentures, and all agreements, instruments and
documents convertible, in whole or in part, into any one or more or all of the
foregoing.  

    ERISA  : The
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  

    Event of Default  :
Any event described in Section 7.1.  

    Existing Loans  :
Existing Term Loan T03NP and Existing Term Loan T04.  

    Existing Term Loan
T03NP  : As defined in Section 2.2.  

    Existing Term Loan
T04  : As defined in Section 2.2.  

5     

Federal Funds Rate  :
For any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during
such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds
transactions, with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal
funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Banking Day,
for the next preceding Banking Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Banking Day, the
average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the
Lender from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.  

    Fiscal Quarter  :
Each three (3) month period beginning on the first day of each September,
December, March and June.  

    GAAP  : Generally
accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of
the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be
approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are
applicable to the circumstances as of any date of determination.  

    Immediately Available
Funds  : Funds with good value on the day and in the city in which payment
is received.  

    Indebtedness  :
With respect to any Person at the time of any determination, without
duplication, all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person which in
accordance with GAAP should be classified upon the balance sheet of such Person
as liabilities, but in any event including: (a) all obligations of such Person
for borrowed money (including non-recourse obligations), (b) all obligations of
such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments,
(c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily
paid or accrued, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or
other title retention agreements relating to property purchased by such Person,
(e) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase
price of property or services, (f) all obligations of others secured by any
Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the
obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (g) all Capitalized Lease
Obligations of such Person, (h) all obligations of such Person in respect of
interest rate swap agreements, cap or collar agreements, interest rate futures
or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency futures or option
agreements and other similar contracts (i) all obligations of such Person,
actual or contingent, as an account party in respect of letters of credit or
bankers  acceptances, (j) all obligations of any partnership or joint venture
as to which such Person is or may become personally liable, (k) all obligations
of such Person under any Equity Interests issued by such Person, and (1) all
Contingent Obligations of such Person.  

    Indemnitee  : As
defined in Section 8.12.  

    Intercreditor
Agreement  : That certain Intercreditor and Collateral Agency Agreement
dated as of September 15, 1998, by and among St. Paul Bank for Cooperatives, as
Collateral  

6     

Agent, St. Paul Bank for Cooperatives, as Bank Lender,
the Noteholders party thereto and the Additional Creditors party thereto.  

    Interest Coverage
Ratio  : For any period of determination, the ratio of  

  (a)                                     Average
Net Funds Generated plus Average Interest Expense, 

  to  

  (b)                                    Average
Interest Expense. 

    Interest Expense  :
For any period of determination, the aggregate consolidated amount, without
duplication, of interest paid, accrued or scheduled to be paid in respect of
any Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including (a) all but
the principal component of payments in respect of conditional sale contracts,
Capitalized Leases and other title retention agreements, (b) commissions,
discounts and other fees and charges with respect to letters of credit and
bankers  acceptance financings and (c) net costs under interest rate protection
agreements, in each case determined in accordance with GAAP.  

    Interest Period  :
With respect to each LIBOR Rate Advance, the period commencing on the date of
such Advance or on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period,
if any, applicable to an outstanding Advance and ending one month, two months,
three months, six months or one year thereafter, as the Borrower may elect in
the applicable notice of borrowing, continuation or conversion;  provided
that :  

  (1)           Any Interest Period that would
otherwise end on a day which is not a LIBOR Banking Day shall be extended to
the next succeeding LIBOR Banking Day unless such LIBOR Banking Day falls in
another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the
next preceding LIBOR Banking Day;  

  (2)           Any Interest Period that begins on
the last LIBOR Banking Day of a calendar month (or a day for which there is no
numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest
Period) shall end on the last LIBOR Banking Day of a calendar month; and  

  (3)           Any Interest Period that would
otherwise end after the Termination Date shall end on the Termination Date.  

  For purposes of determining an Interest Period, a
month means a period starting on one day in a calendar month and ending on the
numerically corresponding day in the next calendar month;  provided ,  however ,
that if there is no numerically corresponding day in the month in which such an
Interest Period is to end or if such an Interest Period begins on the last
Banking Day of a calendar month, then such Interest Period shall end on the
last Banking Day of the calendar month in which such Interest Period is to end.  

7     

Investment  : The
acquisition, purchase, making or holding of any Equity Interests or other
security, any loan, advance, contribution to capital, extension of credit
(except for trade and customer accounts receivable for inventory sold or
services rendered in the ordinary course of business and payable in accordance
with customary trade terms, and Investments of less than $7,500,000), any
acquisitions of real or personal property (other than real and personal
property acquired in the ordinary course of business) and any purchase or
commitment or option to purchase Equity Interests, securities or other debt of
or any interest in another Person or any integral part of any business or the
assets comprising such business or part thereof and the formation of, or entry
into, any partnership as a limited or general partner or the entry into any
joint venture. The amount of any Investment shall be the original cost of such
Investment plus the cost of all additions thereto, without any adjustments for
increases or decreases in value, or write-ups, write-downs or write-offs with
respect to such Investment.  

    Lender  : As
defined in the opening paragraph hereof.  

    Letter of Credit  :
A Seasonal Letter of Credit, Term Letter of Credit, or both.  

    Letter of Credit Fees  :
As defined in Section 2.14(c).  

    Leverage Ratio  :
For any period of determination, the ratio of  

  (a)                                     Long
term debt (excluding current maturities) calculated in accordance with GAAP
plus or minus the difference between actual working capital and minimum Net
Working Capital as required under Section 6.15, 

  to  

  (b)                                    total
members investments plus estimated unit retains and retained patronage. 

    LIBOR Banking Day  :
A Banking Day which is also a day for trading by and between banks in United
States dollar deposits in the interbank Eurodollar market and a day on which
banks are open for business in New York City.  

    LIBOR Rate  : With
respect to each Interest Period applicable to a LIBOR Rate Advance, the average
offered rate for deposits in United States dollars (rounded upward, if
necessary, to the next one hundredth of one percent) for delivery of such
deposits on the first day of such Interest Period, for the number of days in
such Interest Period, which appears on Telerate page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M.,
London time (or such other time as of which such rate appears) two LIBOR
Banking Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, or the rate for
such deposits determined by the Lender at such time based on such other
published service of general application as shall be selected by the Lender for
such purpose;  provided , that in lieu of determining the rate in the
foregoing manner, the Lender may determine the rate based on rates at which
United States dollar deposits are offered to the Lender in the interbank
Eurodollar market at such time for delivery in Immediately Available Funds on
the first day of such Interest  

8     

Period in an
amount approximately equal to the Advance by the Lender to which such Interest
Period is to apply (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next one hundredth of
one percent).  Telerate page 3750  means the display designated as such on the
Telerate reporting system operated by Telerate System Incorporated (or such
other page as may replace page 3750 for the purpose of displaying London
interbank offered rates of major banks for United States dollar deposits).  

    LIBOR Rate Advance  :
An Advance with respect to which the interest rate is determined by applying
the Adjusted LIBOR Rate.  

    LIBOR Reserve
Percentage  : As of any day, that percentage (expressed as a decimal) which
is in effect on such day, as prescribed by the Board for determining the
maximum reserve requirement (including any basic, supplemental or emergency
reserves) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System, with deposits
comparable in amount to those held by the Lender, in respect of  Eurocurrency
Liabilities  as such term is defined in Regulation D of the Board. The rate of
interest applicable to any outstanding Revolving Loans shall be adjusted
automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the LIBOR
Reserve Percentage.  

    Lien  : With
respect to any Person, any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, charge,
encumbrance, title retention agreement or analogous instrument or device
(including the interest of each lessor under any Capitalized Lease), in, of or on
any assets or properties of such Person, now owned or hereafter acquired,
whether arising by agreement or operation of law.  

    Loan  : The
Revolving Loan, Term Loan T01, Term Loan T01NP or Term Loan T06 (collectively
referred to as the  Loans ).  

    Loan Documents  :
This Agreement, the Notes, agreements evidencing the Existing Loans and the
Security Documents.  

    Material Adverse
Occurrence  : Any occurrence of whatsoever nature (including, without
limitation, any adverse determination in any litigation, arbitration, or
governmental investigation or proceeding) which has materially and adversely
affected (a) the financial condition or operations of the Borrower, (b) impair
the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document,
or any writing executed pursuant thereto, (c) the validity or enforceability of
the material obligations of the Borrower under any Loan Document, or (d) the
timely payment of the principal of and interest on the Loans or other amounts
payable by the Borrower hereunder.  

    Material Indebtedness  :
Any contractual indebtedness of the Borrower existing at any time of $7,500,000
or more.  

    Maximum Rate  : As
defined in Section 8.18.  

9     

Mortgage  : That
certain Restated Mortgage and Security Agreement - Mortgage Short-Term Redemption
dated as of September 15, 1998 from American Crystal Sugar Company to St. Paul
Bank for Cooperatives (now known as CoBank as a result of merger), as
Collateral Agent, which was recorded in Pembina County, North Dakota on
September 23, 1998, Document No. 214908, Traill County, North Dakota on
September 23, 1998, Document No. 149700, Clay County, Minnesota on September
23, 1998, Document No. 515813, and Polk County, Minnesota, on September 23,
1998, Document No. 563067, as amended by that certain Modification Agreement to
Restated Mortgage and Security Agreement - Mortgage Short-Term Redemption,
dated as of January 31, 2003, which was recorded in Pembina County, North
Dakota on February 3, 2003, Document No. 224279, Traill County, North Dakota on
February 3, 2003, Document No. 155874, Clay County, Minnesota on February 3,
2003, Document No. 572459, and Polk County, Minnesota on February 4, 2003,
Document No. 600131, as further amended from time to time.  

    Net Working Capital  :
As of any date of determination, total Current Assets minus total Current
Liabilities, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP,
consistently applied.  

    Note  : The
Revolving Note, Term Note T01, Term Note T01NP or Term Note T06 (collectively
referred to as the  Notes ).  

    Obligations  : The
Borrower s obligations in respect of the due and punctual payment of principal
and interest on the Notes, Unpaid Drawings and Existing Loans when and as due,
whether by acceleration or otherwise, and all fees (including Revolving Commitment
Fees), expenses, indemnities, reimbursements and other obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, in all cases whether
now existing or hereafter arising or incurred.  

    Other Taxes  : As
defined in Section 2.25(b).  

    Participants  : As
defined in Section 8.6(b).  

    PBGC  : The
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, established pursuant to Subtitle A of
Title IV of ERISA, and any successor thereto or to the functions thereof.  

    Person  : Any
natural person, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, joint venture, firm, association, trust, unincorporated
organization, government or governmental agency or political subdivision or any
other entity, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.  

    Plan  : Each
employee benefit plan (whether in existence on the Closing Date or thereafter
instituted), as such term is defined in Section 3 of ERISA, maintained for the
benefit of employees, officers or directors of a Borrower.  

10     

Prepayment Event  :
Means:  

  (a)           any sale, transfer or other
disposition (including pursuant to a sale and leaseback transaction) of any
property or asset of the Borrower, other than dispositions described in clauses
(a), (b) and (c) of Section 6.2; or  

  (b)           any casualty or other insured damage
to, or any taking under power of eminent domain or by condemnation or similar
proceeding of, any property or asset of the Borrower, but only to the extent
that the net proceeds therefrom have not been applied, or committed pursuant to
an agreement (including any purchase orders) to be applied, to repair, restore
or replace such property or asset within 180 days after such event.  

    Quoted Rate  : The
rate of interest quoted by the Lender in its sole discretion.  

    Quoted Rate Offer  :
A quote of a fixed interest rate per annum for maximum periods of one (1) day
provided to Borrower by the Lender in its sole discretion following the receipt
by the Lender of a Quoted Rate Request from Borrower.  

    Quoted Rate Request  :
A request by Borrower to the Lender for a Quoted Rate Offer.  

    Regulatory Change  :
Any change after the Closing Date in federal, state or foreign laws or
regulations or the adoption or making after such date of any interpretations,
directives or requests applying to a class of banks including any Lender under
any federal, state or foreign laws or regulations (whether or not having the
force of law) by any court or governmental or monetary authority charged with
the interpretation or administration thereof.  

    Reportable Event  :
A reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations
issued under such Section, with respect to a Plan, excluding, however, such
events as to which the PBGC by regulation has waived the requirement of Section
4043(a) of ERISA that it be notified within 30 days of the occurrence of such
event, provided that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section
412 of the Code and of Section 302 of ERISA shall be a Reportable Event
regardless of the issuance of any waiver in accordance with Section 412(d) of
the Code.  

    Restricted Payments  :
With respect to Borrower, collectively, (a) all dividends or other
distributions of any nature (cash, Equity Interests, assets or otherwise), and
all payments on any class of Equity Interests (including warrants, options or
rights therefor) issued by the Borrower, whether such Equity Interests are
authorized or outstanding on the Closing Date or at any time thereafter, or (b)
any redemption or purchase of, or distribution in respect of, any of the
foregoing, whether directly or indirectly (except for the annual revolvment of
unit retains, or retained patronage which occurs in the ordinary course of
business).  

    Revolving Loan  :
As defined in Section 2.1.  

11  

Revolving Loan Amount  :
An amount which shall not at any time be greater than Three Hundred Million
Dollars ($300,000,000), as determined from time to time according to the terms
of this Agreement.  

    Revolving Loan Date  :
The date of the making of any Revolving Loan Advance hereunder.  

    Revolving Loan Fees  :
As defined in Section 2.14(a).  

    Revolving Note  :
The promissory note of the Borrower in the form of  Exhibit A-l  hereto,
evidencing the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Revolving Loan.  

    Seasonal Letter of
Credit  : An irrevocable letter of credit issued under the Revolving Loan
pursuant to this Agreement of the account of Borrower.  

    Seasonal Letter of
Credit Commitment Amount  : Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000).  

    Secured Obligations  :
The Obligations, excluding the Revolving Note, Unpaid Drawings related to a
Seasonal Letter of Credit, and all fees, including Revolving Loan Fees,
associated therewith.  

    Security Documents  :
The Mortgage and each other agreement, document or instrument pursuant to which
the Lender is granted a Lien to secure the Secured Obligations, as the same may
be amended, supplemented, extended, restated or otherwise modified from time to
time.  

    Subordinated Debt  :
Any interest bearing Indebtedness of the Borrower, now existing or hereafter
created, incurred or arising, which is subordinated in right of payment to the
payment of the Obligations.  

    Subsidiary  : With
respect to any Person, (a) any corporation in which such Person, directly or
indirectly (i) owns more than 50% of the outstanding stock thereof, or (ii) has
the power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the directors
thereof, or (b) any partnership, association, joint venture, limited liability
company, or other unincorporated association or entity with respect to which
such Person, directly or indirectly, owns an equity interest in an amount
sufficient to control the management thereof. For purposes of this Loan
Agreement, ProGold Limited Liability Company ( Progold ) (for as long as
ProGold s current lease with Cargill remains in effect) and Crystech, L.L.C. ( Crystech )
shall not be deemed a Subsidiary.  

    Termination Date  :
The earliest of (a) August 1, 2008, and (b) the date on which the Revolving
Commitments are terminated pursuant to Section 7.2 hereof.  

12     

Term Letter of Credit  :
An irrevocable letter of credit issued under Term Loan T06 pursuant to this
Agreement for the account of Borrower.  

    Term Letter of Credit
Commitment Amount  : Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000).  

    Term Loan  : The
Term Loan T01, Term Loan T01NP or Term Loan T06 (collectively, the  Term Loans ).  

    Term Loan
Availability Period  : The period beginning on the Closing Date to August 1,
2008.  

    Term Loan Fees  :
As defined in Section 2.14(a).  

    Term Loan Maturity
Date  : December 31, 2011.  

    Term Loan T01  :
As defined in Section 2.1.  

    Term Loan T01 Amount  :
An amount which shall not at any time be greater than Fifty-Eight Million Two
Hundred Seventy-Six Thousand Seven Hundred Two Dollars ($58,276,702), as
determined from time to time according to the terms of this Agreement.  

    Term Loan T01NP Loan  :
As defined in Section 2.1.  

    Term Loan T01NP
Amount  : An amount which shall not at any time be greater than Twenty-Five
Million One Hundred Six Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($25,106,600), as
determined from time to time according to the terms of this Agreement.  

    Term Loan T06  :
As defined in Section 2.1.  

    Term Loan T06 Amount  :
An amount which shall not at any time be greater than Eighty-Five Million
Dollars ($85,000,000), as determined from time to time according to the terms
of this Agreement.  

    Term Note T01  :
The promissory note of the Borrower in the form of  Exhibit A-2  hereto,
evidencing the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Term Loan T01.  

    Term Note T01NP  :
The promissory note of the Borrower in the form of  Exhibit A-3  hereto,
evidencing the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Term Loan T01NP.  

    Term Note T06  :
The promissory note of the Borrower in the form of  Exhibit A-4  hereto,
evidencing the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Term Loan T06.  

    Total Revolving
Outstandings  : As of any date of determination, the sum of (a) the
aggregate unpaid principal balance of the Revolving Loan outstanding on such
date, (b) the aggregate maximum amount available to be drawn under Letters of
Credit outstanding on such  

13     

date, and (c) the aggregate amount of Unpaid Drawings related to a
Seasonal Letter of Credit on such date.  

    Total Term
Outstandings  : As of any date of determination, the sum of (a) the
aggregate unpaid principal balance of Term Loan T01, (b) the aggregate unpaid
principal balance of Term Loan T01NP, (c) the aggregate unpaid principal
balance of Term Loan T06, and (d) the aggregate amount of Unpaid Drawings
related to a Term Letter of Credit on such date.  

    Unpaid Drawing  :
As defined in Section 2.12.  

    Unused Revolving Loan
Amoun t : As of any date of determination, the amount by which the Revolving
Loan Amount exceeds the Total Revolving Outstandings on such date.  

    Unused Term Loan
Amount  : As of any date of determination, the amount by which the Term Loan
T01 Amount plus the Term Loan T01NP Amount plus the Term Loan T06 Amount
exceeds the Total Term Outstandings.  

    U.S. Taxes  : As
defined in Section 2.25(e).  

  Section 1.2  Accounting
Terms and Calculations . Except as may be expressly provided to the contrary
herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted and all
accounting determinations hereunder shall be made in accordance with GAAP. To
the extent any change in GAAP affects any computation or determination required
to be made pursuant to this Agreement, such computation or determination shall
be made as if such change in GAAP had not occurred unless the Borrower and
Required Lender agree in writing on an adjustment to such computation or
determination to account for such change in GAAP.  

  Section 1.3  Computation
of Time Periods . In this Agreement, in the computation of a period of time
from a specified date to a later specified date, unless otherwise stated the
word  from  means  from and including  and the word  to  or  until  each means  to
but excluding .  

  Section 1.4  Other
Definitional Terms . The words  hereof,   herein  and  hereunder  and words
of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as
a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. References to
Sections, Exhibits, schedules and like references are to this Agreement unless
otherwise expressly provided. The words  include,   includes  and  including 
shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase  without limitation.  Unless the
context in which used herein otherwise clearly requires,  or  has the inclusive
meaning represented by the phrase  and/or.  All incorporation by reference of
covenants, terms, definitions or other provisions from other agreements are
incorporated into this Agreement as if such provisions were fully set forth
herein, and such incorporation shall include all necessary definitions and
related provisions from such other agreements, and shall survive any
termination of such other agreements until the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and the Notes are irrevocably paid in full, all Letters of
Credit have expired without  

14     

renewal or been returned to the issuer, and the
commitments of Lender to advance funds to the Borrower are terminated.  

   ARTICLE II 
TERMS OF THE CREDIT FACILITIES   

  Section 2.1              Lending
Commitments .  

  (a)            Revolving Loan . Subject to the
terms and conditions hereof, the Lender agrees to make a revolving credit
facility available to the Borrower on a revolving basis at any time and from
time to time from the Closing Date to the Termination Date, during which period
the Borrower may borrow, repay and reborrow in accordance with the provisions
hereof,  provided , that no Revolving Loan will be made in any amount
which, after giving effect thereto, would cause the Total Revolving
Outstandings to exceed the (i) Revolving Loan Amount, or (ii) the Borrowing
Base. Revolving Loan Advances may be obtained and maintained, at the election
of the Borrower but subject to the limitations hereof, as LIBOR Rate Advances,
Quoted Rate Advances or Base Rate Advances or any combination thereof;  provided ,
 however , that no more than five (5) LIBOR Rate Advances may be
outstanding at any one time, and no more than ten (10) Quoted Rate Advances may
be outstanding at any one time under the Revolving Loan.  

  (b)            Term Loan T01 . Subject to the
terms and conditions hereof, the Lender agrees to make a revolving term
facility available to the Borrower, jointly and severally, on a revolving basis
at any time and from time to time during the Term Loan T01 Availability Period,
up to the Term Loan T01 Amount, during which period the Borrower may borrow,
repay and reborrow in accordance with the provisions hereof. Term Loan T01
Advances may be obtained and maintained, at the election of the Borrower but
subject to the limitations hereof, as LIBOR Rate Advances, Quoted Rate Advances
or Base Rate Advances or any combination thereof;  provided ,  however ,
that no more than five (5) LIBOR Rate Advances may be outstanding at any one
time, and no more than ten (10) Quoted Rate Advances may be outstanding at any
one time under Term Loan T01.  

  (c)            Term Loan T01NP . Subject to
the terms and conditions hereof, the Lender agrees to make a revolving term
facility available to the Borrower, jointly and severally, on a revolving basis
at any time and from time to time during the Term Loan T01NP Availability
Period, up to the Term Loan T01NP Amount, during which period the Borrower may
borrow, repay and reborrow in accordance with the provisions hereof. Term Loan
T01NP Advances may be obtained and maintained, at the election of the Borrower
but subject to the limitations hereof, as LIBOR Rate Advances, Quoted Rate
Advances or Base Rate Advances or any combination thereof;  provided ,  however, 
that no more than five (5) LIBOR Rate Advances may be outstanding at any one
time, and no more than ten (10) Quoted Rate Advances may be outstanding at any
one time under Term Loan T01NP.  

15     

(d)            Term Loan T06 . Subject to the
terms and conditions hereof, the Lender agrees to make a revolving term
facility available to the Borrower, jointly and severally, on a revolving basis
at any time and from time to time during the Term Loan T06 Availability Period,
up to the Term Loan T06 Amount, during which period the Borrower may borrow, repay
and reborrow in accordance with the provisions hereof. Term Loan T06 Advances
may be obtained and maintained, at the election of the Borrower but subject to
the limitations hereof, as LIBOR Rate Advances, Quoted Rate Advances or Base
Rate Advances or any combination thereof;  provided ,  however , that
no more than five (5) LIBOR Rate Advances may be outstanding at any one time,
and no more than ten (10) Quoted Rate Advances may be outstanding at any one
time under Term Loan T06.  

  Section 2.2              Existing Loans . The Lender
has previously extended to the Borrower (i) the Term Loan T03NP pursuant to
that certain Single Advance Term Loan Supplement dated as of July 21, 2003, and
numbered Z269T03BNP, in the original principal amount of $12,000,000, which has
an unpaid principal balance of $2,400,000, and a maturity date of February 1,
2010, and (ii) the Term Loan T04 pursuant to that certain Non-Revolving Credit
Supplement dated as of December 12, 2005, and numbered Z269T04B, in the
original principal amount of $36,000,000, which has an unpaid principal balance
of $36,000,000, and a maturity date of April 30, 2013. As of the date of this
Agreement, Term Loan T03NP and Term Loan T04 shall become subject to all of the
terms and conditions of this Agreement;  provided,    however , if any
provision of this Agreement is in conflict with any provision of any Term Loan
Supplement, the applicable Term Loan Supplement shall control with respect to
such provision.  

  Section 2.3              Procedure for Loans .  

  (a)            Procedure for Revolving Loan .  

  (i)            Not later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver
time) two LIBOR Banking Days prior to the requested Revolving Loan Date if the
Revolving Loan Advance is requested as a LIBOR Rate Advance, not later than
11:00 A.M. (Denver time) one Banking Day prior to the requested Revolving Loan
Date if the Revolving Loan Advance is requested as a Quoted Rate Advance, and
not later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver time) on the requested Revolving Loan Date if
the Revolving Loan Advance is requested as a Base Rate Advance, Borrower s
Agent shall submit to the Lender a written on telephonic request for borrowing,
 provided  that no more than one request for Borrowing may be made on any
Banking Day. Each request for a Revolving Loan Advance hereunder shall be
irrevocable and shall be deemed a representation by Borrower that on the
requested Revolving Loan Date, and after giving effect to the requested
Revolving Loan Advance, the applicable conditions specified in Article III have
been and will be satisfied. Each request for a Revolving Loan Advance hereunder
shall specify (i) the requested Revolving Loan Date, (ii) the amount of the
Revolving Loan Advance to be made on such date which shall be in a minimum
amount of $5,000,000 or, if more, a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in   excess thereof, (iii) whether such
Revolving  

16     

Loan Advance is to be funded as a LIBOR Rate Advance,
Quoted Rate Advance or Base Rate Advance (and, if such Revolving Loan Advance
is to be made with more than one applicable interest rate choice, specifying
the amount to which each interest rate choice is applicable) and (iv) in the
case of LIBOR Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period
applicable thereto. The Lender may rely on any telephone request by the
Borrower for Revolving Loan Advances hereunder which it believes in good faith
to be genuine; and Borrower hereby waives the right to dispute the Lender s
record of the terms of such telephone request.  

  (ii)           The Lender agrees that the Borrower
may from time to time request the Lender to submit an offer to make a Revolving
Loan Advance to the Borrower, provided, however, that the Lender may, but shall
have no obligation to, submit such offer and the Borrower may, but shall have
no obligation to, accept any such offer. A request that the Lender submit an
offer to make a Revolving Loan Advance hereunder shall be referred to herein as
a  bid request,  and an offer to make a loan that specifies the loan amount,
interest rate and interest period shall be referred to herein as the  bid.  Bid
requests may be made orally or in writing (in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit
E ) but if made orally shall be confirmed promptly by telecopy (facsimile)
of a written completed bid request in a form approved by the Lender. Each bid
request shall specify (A) the amount of the requested Revolving Loan Advance,
which amount must be in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 or integral multiples
thereof (or the entire available balance of the Revolving Loan), (B) the date
of the Revolving Loan Advance, and (C) the Interest Period of the Revolving Loan
Advance. The Lender may, in response to a bid request, in its discretion,
irrevocably submit to the Borrower, a bid containing an offer to make the
Revolving Loan Advance. Each bid, if submitted, must be submitted to the
Lender, whether orally or in writing, by 10:00 A.M. (Denver time) on the day
following the bid request. Each bid shall specify (X) the amount of the
Revolving Loan Advance for which the bid is being made, (Y) the rate of
interest per annum offered for the Revolving Loan Advance (which shall be
expressed in the form of an index plus any margin), and (Z) the Interest Period
of the Revolving Loan Advance, which date shall not be beyond the Termination
Date. Not later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver time) on the day the Borrower receives
the Lender s bid (or at such later time as the Lender may agree), the Borrower
shall either reject the bid or accept the bid by giving notice to the Lender by
telephone in either case, confirmed by facsimile. Failure to properly notify
the Lender of an acceptance of the bid may be treated by the Lender as a
rejection. Any Revolving Loan Advance made as a result of the Borrower s
acceptance of the Lender s bid (such Revolving Loan Advance to be referred to
herein as a  Bid Advance ) shall be subject to the terms of this Agreement. If
the Lender has sold participation interests in the Revolving Loan, then Bid
Advances by the Lender shall be deemed to reduce only the  

17     

Lender s pro rata share of the Revolving Loan. the sum
of all Bid Advances outstanding may not at any time exceed the lesser of (L)
$50,000,000, or (M) the dollar amount of the Lender s pro rata share of the
Revolving Loan (as said amount may be reduced a result of other Revolving Loan
Advances made pursuant to the Revolving Loan).  

  (b)            Procedure for Term Loans . Not
later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver time) two LIBOR Banking Days prior to the
requested Term Loan Date if the Term Loan Advance is requested as a LIBOR Rate
Advance, not later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver time) one Banking Day prior to the
requested Term Loan Date if the Term Loan Advance is requested as a Quoted Rate
Advance, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver time) on the requested Term Loan
Date if the Term Loan Advance is requested as a Base Rate Advance, Borrower s
Agent shall submit to the Lender a written or telephonic request for borrowing,
 provided  that no more than one request for Borrowing may be made on any
Banking Day. Each request for a Term Loan Advance hereunder shall be
irrevocable and shall be deemed a representation by Borrower that on the requested
Term Loan Date, and after giving effect to the requested Term Loan Advance, the
applicable conditions specified in Article III have been and will be satisfied.
Each request for a Term Loan Advance hereunder shall specify (i) the requested
Term Loan Date, (ii) the Term Loan to which the Term Loan Advance relates,
(iii) the amount of the Term Loan Advance to be made on such date which shall
be in a minimum amount of $2,000,000 or, if more, a whole multiple of $500,000
in excess thereof, (iv) whether such Term Loan Advance is to be funded as a
LIBOR Rate Advance, Quoted Rate Advance or Base Rate Advance (and, if such Term
Loan Advance is to be made with more than one applicable interest rate choice,
specifying the amount to which each interest rate choice is applicable) and (v)
in the case of LIBOR Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period
applicable thereto. The Lender may rely on any telephone request by the
Borrower for Term Loan Advances hereunder which it believes in good faith to be
genuine; and Borrower hereby waives the right to dispute the Lender s record of
the terms of such telephone request.  

  Section 2.4              Notes . The Revolving Loan
shall be evidenced by the Revolving Note payable to the order of the Lender in
a principal amount equal to the Revolving Loan Amount. The Term Loans shall be
evidenced by the Term Notes payable to the order of the Lender in principal
amounts equal to the respective Term Loan Amount. The Lender shall enter in its
ledgers and records the amount of the Revolving Loan and each Term Loan, the
various Advances made, converted or continued and the payments made thereon,
and the Lender is authorized by the Borrower to enter on a schedule attached to
the Revolving Note or Term Notes, as appropriate, a record of such Revolving
Loan, Term Loans, Advances and payments; provided, however that the failure by
the Lender to make any such entry or any error in making such entry shall not
limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder and on the
Notes, and, in all events, the principal amounts owing by the Borrower in
respect of the Revolving Note shall be the aggregate amount of all Revolving
Loan Advances made by the  

18     

Lender less all payments of principal thereof made by
the Borrower, and the principal amount owing by Borrower in respect of the Term
Notes shall be aggregate amount of all Term Note Advances made by the Lender
less all payments of principal thereon made by the Borrower.  

  Section 2.5              Conversions and Continuations .
On the terms and subject to the limitations hereof, the Borrower shall have the
option at any time and from time to time to convert all or any portion of the
Advances in respect of the Revolving Loan or the Term Loans into Base Rate
Advances, LIBOR Rate Advances or Quoted Rate Advances, or to continue a LIBOR
Rate Advance or Quoted Rate Advance as such;  provided ,  however 
that a LIBOR Rate Advance may be converted or continued only on the last day of
the Interest Period applicable thereto, a Quoted Rate Advance may be converted
or continued only on the last day of the fixed rate period set forth in the
corresponding Quoted Rate Offer, and no Advance may be converted or continued
as a LIBOR Rate Advance or a Quoted Rate Advance if a Default or Event of
Default has occurred and is continuing on the proposed date of continuation or
conversion. Advances in respect of the Revolving Loan or Term Loans may be
converted to, or continued as, LIBOR Rate Advances only in a minimum amount of
$500,000 or, if more, a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof. Advances
in respect of the Revolving Loan or Term Loans may be converted to, or
continued as, Quoted Rate Advances only in a minimum amount of $500,000 or, if
more, a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof. The Borrower shall give
the Lender written notice of any continuation or conversion of any such
Advances and such notice must be given so as to be received by the Lender not
later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver Time) two LIBOR Banking Days prior to requested
date of conversion or continuation in the case of the continuation of, or
conversion to, LIBOR Rate Advances, not later than 11:00 A.M. (Denver Time) on
the requested date of conversion or continuation in the case of the
continuation of, or conversion to, Quoted Rate Advances, and not later than
11:00 A.M. (Denver Time) on the date of the requested continuation of, or
conversion to, Base Rate Advances. Each such notice shall specify (a) the
amount to be continued or converted, (b) the date for the continuation or
conversion (which must be (i) the last day of the preceding Interest Period for
any continuation or conversion of LIBOR Rate Advances, (ii) the last day of the
fixed rate period set forth in the corresponding Quoted Rate Offer for any
continuations or conversion of a Quoted Rate Advance, (iii) a LIBOR Banking Day
in the case of conversions to or continuations as LIBOR Rate Advances, and (iv)
a Banking Day in the case of continuations or conversions to Base Rate
Advances), and (c) in the case of conversions to or continuations as LIBOR Rate
Advances, the Interest Period applicable thereto. Any notice given by the
Borrower under this Section shall be irrevocable. If the Borrower shall fail to
notify the Lender of the continuation of any LIBOR Rate Advances within the
time required by this Section, at the option of the Lender, such Advances
shall, on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, automatically
be converted into Base Rate Advances with the same principal amount. If the
Borrower shall fail to notify the Lender of the continuation of any Quoted Rate
Advances within the time required by this Section, or if the Lender declines to
make a Quoted Rate Offer with respect to such Quoted Rate Advances and the
Borrower has not requested an alternate Advance, such Quoted Rate Advances
shall, on the last day of the fixed rate period applicable thereto,
automatically accrue interest at the Base Rate until repaid or converted into
another Advance.  

19     

Section 2.6              Interest
Rates, Interest Payments and Default Interest .  

  (a)            Revolving Loan . Interest shall
accrue and be payable on the Revolving Loan as follows:  

  (i)            Subject to paragraph (iv) below,
each LIBOR Rate Advance shall bear interest on the unpaid principal amount
thereof during the Interest Period applicable thereto at a rate per annum equal
to the sum of (A) the Adjusted LIBOR Rate for such Interest Period,  plus 
(B) 65 basis points.  

  (ii)           Subject to paragraph (iv) below, each
Quoted Rate Advance shall bear interest on the unpaid principal amount thereof
at a rate per annum equal to the Quoted Rate;  

  (iii)          Subject to paragraph (iv) below, each
Base Rate Advance shall bear interest on the unpaid principal amount thereof at
a varying rate per annum equal to the Base Rate.  

  (iv)          Upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default, each Advance in respect of the Revolving Loan shall, at the option of
the Lender, bear interest until paid in full at a rate per annum equal to the
Default Rate.  

  (v)           Interest shall be payable (A) with
respect to each LIBOR Rate Advance, on the last day of the Interest Period
applicable thereto (and, in the case of any LIBOR Rate Advance having an
Interest Period greater than three months, on the three month anniversary of
the first day of such Interest Period); (B) with respect to any Base Rate
Advance or Quoted Rate Advance, in arrears on the 20th day of each month; (C)
with respect to all Advances, upon any permitted prepayment (on the amount
prepaid); and (D) with respect to all Advances, on the Termination Date;  provided 
that interest under paragraph (a)(iv) of this Section shall be payable on
demand.  

  (b)            Term Loan . Interest shall
accrue and be payable on the Term Loan as follows:  

  (i)            Subject to paragraph (iv) below,
each LIBOR Rate Advance in respect of the Term Loan shall bear interest on the
unpaid principal amount thereof during the Interest Period applicable thereto
at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (A) the Adjusted LIBOR Rate for such
Interest Period,  plus  (B) the Applicable Margin.  

  (ii)           Subject to paragraph (iv) below, each
Quoted Rate Advance in respect of the Term Loan shall bear interest on the
unpaid principal amount thereof at a rate per annum equal to the Quoted Rate.  

20     

(iii)          Subject to paragraph (iv) below, each
Base Rate Advance in respect of the Term Loan shall bear interest on the unpaid
principal amount thereof at a varying rate per annum equal to the sum of (A)
the Base Rate,  plus  (B) the Applicable Margin.  

  (iv)          Upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default, each Term Loan Advance shall, at the option of the Lenders, bear
interest until paid in full at a rate per annum equal to the Default Rate.  

  (v)           Interest shall be payable (A) with
respect to each LIBOR Rate Advance in respect of the Term Loan, on the last day
of the Interest Period applicable thereto (and, in the case of any LIBOR Rate
Advance in respect of the Term Loan having an Interest Period greater than
three months, on the three month anniversary of the first day of such Interest
Period); (B) with respect to any Base Rate Advance or Quoted Rate Advance in
respect of the Term Loan in arrears, on the 20th day of each month; (C) with
respect to all Advances, upon any permitted prepayment (on the amount prepaid);
and (D) with respect to all Advances, on the Termination Date;  provided 
that interest under paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section shall be payable on
demand.  

  Section 2.7              Repayment .  

  (a)            Revolving Loan . The unpaid
principal balance of the Revolving Note, together with all accrued and unpaid
interest thereon, shall be due and payable on the Termination Date.  

  (b)            Term Loan T01 . The principal
of Term Loan T01 shall be payable in three annual installments in the amount of
$9,400,000 due on December 31 of each year beginning December 31, 2008, and any
amount of principal or interest remaining unpaid with respect to Term Loan T01
on the Term Loan Maturity Date shall be immediately due and payable on such
date.  

  (c)            Term Loan T01NP . The principal
of Term Loan T01NP shall be payable in three annual installments in the amount
of $7,600,000 due on December 31 of each year beginning December 31, 2008, and
any amount of principal or interest remaining unpaid with respect to Term Loan
T01NP on the Term Loan Maturity Date shall be immediately due and payable on
such date.  

  (d)            Term Loan T06 . The unpaid
principal of Term Loan T06 shall be payable as follows: On December 31, 2008, a
principal payment shall be due in an amount equal to 25% of the outstanding
principal balance of Term Loan T06 as of the last day of the Term Loan
Availability Period; the remaining principal balance shall be payable in three
equal annual installments due on December 31 of each year beginning December
31, 2009, and any amount of principal or interest remaining unpaid with respect
to Term  

21     

Loan T06 on the Term Loan Maturity Date shall be
immediately due and payable on such date.  

  Section 2.8              Prepayments .  

  (a)            Mandatory Prepayments for
Borrowing Base Deficiency . If at any time a Borrowing Base Deficiency
exists, the Borrower shall immediately pay on the principal of the Advances in
respect of the Revolving Loan an amount equal to such Borrowing Base
Deficiency. Any such payments shall be applied first against Base Rate Advances
and then to Quoted Rate and LIBOR Rate Advances in order starting with the
Quoted Rate or LIBOR Rate Advances having the shortest time to the end of the
applicable Interest Period.  

  (b)            Mandatory Prepayments for a
Prepayment Event . If at any time a Prepayment Event occurs, the Borrower
shall immediately pay to the Lender the net proceeds realized by such
Prepayment Event and any prepayment fee payable under Section 2.24. Any such
prepayments shall be applied, pro rata, to the Term Loans (first against Base
Rate Advances and then to Quoted Rate and LIBOR Rate Advances in order starting
with the Quoted Rate or LIBOR Rate Advances having the shortest time to the end
of the applicable Interest Period),  second , to any outstanding Revolving
Loans, and  third  to cash collateralize any issued and outstanding
Letters of Credit. All prepayments applied to the Term Loans shall be applied
to the scheduled principal payments on the Term Loans, pro rata, in the inverse
order of their maturities.  

  (c)            Other Mandatory Prepayments .
If at any time Total Revolving Outstandings exceed the Revolving Loan Amount,
the Borrower shall immediately repay to the Lender the amount of such excess.
Any such prepayments shall be applied to the Revolving Loan.  

  (d)            Optional Prepayments . The
Loans may be prepaid at any time, in whole or in part, subject to Section 2.24,
in minimum amounts of $1,000,000.00, and in integral multiples of $100,000.00
(or the entire outstanding balance, if less) on any Banking Day; provided,
however, in the event of any prepayment of a LIBOR Rate Advance, Borrower must
provide three (3) Banking Days  prior written notice to the Agent. Any such
prepayment must be accompanied by accrued and unpaid interest on the amount
prepaid. Amounts paid (unless following an acceleration or upon termination of
the Revolving Loan in whole) or prepaid on Advances in respect of the Revolving
Loan or the Term Loans under this paragraph (d) may be reborrowed upon the
terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of this Agreement. All
prepayments shall be applied to the Loans, as designated by Borrower, and all
prepayments on a Term Loan shall be applied to the scheduled principal payments
on such Term Loan in the inverse order of their maturities.  

22     

Section 2.9              Letters of Credit . Upon the
terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Lender agrees to
issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower from time to time
between the Closing Date and thirty (30) days prior to the Termination Date in
such amounts as the Borrower shall request up to an aggregate amount at any
time outstanding not exceeding the Seasonal Letter of Credit Commitment Amount
or Term Letter of Credit Commitment Amount, as applicable;  provided  that
(i) the face amount of any Seasonal Letter of Credit shall automatically
reduce, dollar for dollar, the amount which Borrower may borrow as Revolving
Loan Advances, (ii) the face amount of any Term Letter of Credit shall automatically
reduce, dollar for dollar, the amount which Borrower may borrow as Term Loan
T06 Advances; (iii) the aggregate face amount of all issued and outstanding
Seasonal Letters of Credit shall not exceed $20,000,000, (iv) the aggregate
amount of all issued and outstanding Letters of Credit shall not exceed
$10,000,000, (v) no Seasonal Letter of Credit will be issued in any amount
which, after giving effect to such issuance, would cause Total Revolving
Outstandings to exceed the Revolving Loan Amount, and (vi) no Term Letter of
Credit will be issued in any amount which, after giving effect to such
issuance, would cause the aggregate unpaid principal balance of Term Loan T06
and the aggregate amount of Unpaid Drawings related to a Term Letter of Credit
to exceed the Term Loan T06 Amount. Each Letter of Credit request shall set
forth (i) the face amount of and expiry date, (ii) the beneficiary, (iii) the
terms thereof, and (iv) such other information as the Lender may request.  

  Section 2.10            Procedures for Letters of Credit .
Each request for a Letter of Credit shall be made by the Borrower in writing,
by telex, facsimile transmission or electronic conveyance received by the
Lender by 11:00 A.M. (Denver Time) on a Banking Day that is not less than one
Banking Day preceding the requested date of issuance (which shall also be a
Banking Day). Each request for a Letter of Credit shall be deemed a
representation by the Borrower that on the date of issuance of such Letter of
Credit and after giving effect thereto the applicable conditions specified in
Article III have been and will be satisfied. The Lender may require that such
request be made on such letter of credit application and reimbursement
agreement form as the Lender may from time to time specify, along with satisfactory
evidence of the authority and incumbency of the officials of the Borrower.  

  Section 2.11            Terms of Letters of Credit .
Letters of Credit shall be issued in support of obligations of the Borrower in
accordance with Section 2.17. Each Seasonal Letter of Credit must expire not
later than the Banking Day preceding the Termination Date, each Term Letter of
Credit must expire not later than the Banking Day preceding the Term Loan
Maturity Date, and no Letter of Credit may have a term longer than the underlying
Loan.  

  Section 2.12            Agreement to Repay Letter of
Credit Drawing . If the Lender has received documents purporting to draw
under a Letter of Credit that the Lender believes conform to the requirements
of such Letter of Credit, or if the Lender has decided that it will comply with
the Borrower s written or oral request or authorization to pay a drawing on any
Letter of Credit that the Lender does not believe conforms to the requirements
of such Letter of Credit, it will notify the Borrower of that fact. The
Borrower shall reimburse the Lender by 9:30 A.M. (Denver Time) on the day on
which such drawing is to be paid in Immediately Available Funds  

23     

in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing. Any
amount by which the Borrower has failed to reimburse the Lender for the full
amount of such drawing by 10:00 A.M. on the date on which the Lender in its
notice indicated that it would pay such drawing, until reimbursed by the
Borrower, is an   Unpaid Drawing .   

  Section 2.13           Obligations Absolute. The obligation
of the Borrower under Section 2.12 to repay the Lender for any amount drawn on
any Letter of Credit and to repay the Lender to cover Unpaid Drawings shall be
absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, shall continue for so long as any
Letter of Credit is outstanding notwithstanding any termination of this
Agreement, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, under all circumstances whatsoever, including without limitation the
following circumstances:  

  (a)           Any lack of validity or enforceability
of any Letter of Credit;  

  (b)           The existence of any claim, setoff,
defense or other right which the Borrower may have or claim at any time against
any beneficiary, transferee or holder of any Letter of Credit (or any Person
for whom any such beneficiary, transferee or holder may be acting), the Lender
or the Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with a Letter of
Credit, this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby, or any unrelated
transaction; or  

  (c)           Any statement or any other document
presented under any Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or
invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in
any respect whatsoever.  

  Neither the Lender nor its officers, directors or
employees shall be liable or responsible for, and the obligations of the
Borrower to the Lender shall not be impaired by:  

  (i)            The use which may be made of any
Letter of Credit or for any acts or omissions of any beneficiary, transferee or
holder thereof in connection therewith;  

  (ii)           The validity or genuineness of
documents, or of any endorsements thereon, even if such documents or
endorsements should, in fact, prove to be in any or all respects invalid,
fraudulent or forged;  

  (iii)          The acceptance by the Lender of
documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for
further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary;
or  

  (iv)          Any other action of the Lender in
making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit if in good faith
and in conformity with U.S. or foreign laws, regulations or customs applicable
thereto.  

24     

Section 2.14            Fees .  

  (a)            Loan Fees . The Borrower shall
pay to the Lender fees with respect to (i) the Revolving Loan in the amount of
$225,000.00 (  Revolving Loan Fees   (ii) the Term Loan T01 in the
amount of $43,708.53; (iii) the Term Loan T01NP in the amount of $18,829,95;
and (iv) the Term Loan T06 in the amount of $63,750.00 (  Term Loan Fees  ).
Such fees are payable on the Closing Date and are not refundable to the
Borrower.  

  (b)            Commitment Fees . The Borrower
shall pay to the Lender fees (the   Revolving Commitment Fees  ) in an
amount determined by multiplying the average daily Unused Revolving Loan Amount
by fifteen (15) basis points per annum, based on a 360 day year, for the period
from the Closing Date to the Termination Date. The Borrower shall further pay
to the Lender fees (the   Term Loan Commitment Fees  ) in an amount
determined by applying the Applicable Commitment Fee Percentage to the daily
Unused Term Loan Amount during the Term Loan Availability Period.  

  Such Revolving Commitment Fees are payable in arrears
quarterly on the last day of each calendar quarter and on the Termination Date.  

  (c)            Letter of Credit Fees . For
each Letter of Credit issued, the Borrower shall pay to the Lender in advance
on the date of issuance, fees (  Letter of Credit Fees  ) in an amount
equal to the greater of (i) $2,500.00, or (ii) the amount determined by
applying a per annum rate to the Applicable Margin for LIBOR Rate Advances in
respect of the Revolving Loan then in effect to the original face amount of
such Letter of Credit for the period from the date of issuance to the scheduled
expiration date of such Letter of Credit. In addition to the Letter of Credit
Fees, the Borrower shall pay to the Lender, on demand, all issuance, amendment,
drawing and other fees regularly charged by the Lender to its letter of credit
customers and all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Lender in connection
with the issuance, amendment, administration or payment of any Letter of
Credit.  

  Section 2.15            Computation . Revolving
Commitment Fees, Term Loan Commitment Fees, Letter of Credit Fees, interest on
the Revolving Loan, the Term Loans and the Default Rate shall be computed on
the basis of actual days elapsed (or, in the case of Letter of Credit Fees
which are paid in advance, actual days to elapse) and a year of 360 days.  

  Section 2.16            Payments . Payments and
prepayments of principal of, and interest on, the Notes and all fees, expenses
and other obligations under this Agreement payable to the Lender or the Lender
shall be made without setoff or counterclaim in Immediately Available Funds not
later than 1:00 P.M. (Denver Time) on the dates called for under this Agreement
and the Notes to the Lender at its main office in Denver, Colorado. Funds
received after such time shall be deemed to have been received on the next
Banking Day. Whenever any payment to be made hereunder or on the Notes shall be
stated to be due on a day which is not a Banking Day, such  

25     

payment shall be made on the next succeeding Banking
Day and such extension of time, in the case of a payment of principal, shall be
included in the computation of any interest on such principal payment;  provided ,
 however , that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or
principal of a LIBOR Rate Advance to be made in the next following calendar
month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Banking Day.  

  Section 2.17            Use of Loan Proceeds . The
proceeds of the Revolving Loan shall be used to refinance the outstanding
obligations of Borrower under the Statused Revolving Term Loan Supplement dated
July 11, 2005, and numbered Z269T07, and to continue to finance Borrower s
accounts receivable and inventory, for the issuance of letters of credit, and
to finance the general business purposes of Borrower in a manner not in
conflict with any of Borrower s covenants in this Agreement. The proceeds of
the Term Loan T01 shall be used to refinance the outstanding obligations of the
Borrower under the Revolving Term Loan Supplement dated July 11, 2005, and
numbered Z269T01F, and to continue to finance the Borrower s operating needs.
The proceeds of the Term Loan T01NP shall be used to refinance the outstanding
obligations of the Borrower under the Revolving Term Loan Supplement dated July
8, 2005, and numbered Z260T01FNP, and to continue to finance the Borrower s
operating needs. The proceeds of the Term Loan T06 shall be used to refinance
the outstanding obligations of the Borrower under the Revolving Term Loan
Supplement dated July 11, 2005, and numbered Z269T06C, and to continue to
finance the Borrower s operating needs. In no event shall the Loan proceeds be
used (i) to purchase or carry margin stock (as defined in Regulation U of the
Board) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying
margin stock or to refund Indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, or
(ii) for any purpose that entails a violation of, or that is inconsistent with,
the provisions of Regulations U or X of the Board.  

  Section 2.18            Interest Rate Not Ascertainable,
Etc . If, on or prior to the date for determining the Adjusted LIBOR Rate in
respect of the Interest Period for any LIBOR Rate Advance, the Lender
determines (which determination shall be conclusive and binding, absent error)
that:  

  (a)           deposits in dollars (in the
applicable amount) are not being made available to the Lender in the relevant
market for such Interest Period, or  

  (b)           the Adjusted LIBOR Rate will not
adequately and fairly reflect the cost to the Lender of funding or maintaining
LIBOR Rate Advances for such Interest Period,  

  the Lender shall forthwith give notice to the Borrower
of such determination, whereupon the obligation of the Lender to make or
continue, or to convert any Advances to, LIBOR Rate Advances shall be suspended
until the Lender notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to
such suspension no longer exist. While any such suspension continues, all
further Advances by the Lender shall be made with an interest rate option to
which such suspension does not apply. No such suspension shall affect the
interest rate then in effect during the applicable Interest Period for any
LIBOR Rate Advance outstanding at the time such suspension is imposed.  

26  

Section 2.19            Increased
Cost . If any Regulatory Change:  

  (a)           shall subject the Lender to any
additional tax, duty or other charge with respect to its LIBOR Rate Advances,
the Revolving Note, the Term Notes or its obligation to make LIBOR Rate
Advances or shall change the basis of taxation of payment to the Lender of the
principal of or interest on its LIBOR Rate Advances or any other amounts due
under this Agreement in respect of its LIBOR Rate Advances or its obligation to
make LIBOR Rate Advances (except for changes in the rate of tax on the overall
net income of the Lender imposed by the jurisdiction in which the Lender s
principal office located); or  

  (b)           shall impose, modify or deem
applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement (including without
limitation, any such requirement imposed by the Board, but excluding any such
requirement to the extent included in calculating the applicable Adjusted LIBOR
Rate) against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit
extended by, or against Letters of Credit issued by the Lender or shall impose
on the Lender or on the United States market for certificates of deposit or the
interbank Eurodollar market any other condition affecting its   LIBOR Rate Advances, the Revolving Note,
the Term Notes or its obligation to make LIBOR Rate Advances or affecting any
Letter of Credit;  

  and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase
the cost to the Lender of making or maintaining any LIBOR Rate Advance or
issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit, or to reduce the amount of any sum
received or receivable by the Lender under this Agreement or under the
Revolving Note or the Term Notes, then, within 30 days after written notice and
demand by the Lender, which notice shall describe the Regulatory Change, the
Borrower shall pay to the Lender such additional amount or amounts as will
compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction.  

  Section 2.20           Illegality. If any Regulatory Change
shall make it unlawful or impossible for the Lender to make,   maintain or fund any LIBOR Rate Advance,
the Lender shall notify the Borrower, whereupon the obligation of the Lender to
make or continue, or to convert any Advances to, LIBOR Rate Advances shall be
suspended until the Lender notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving
rise to such suspension no longer exist. Before giving any such notice, the
Lender shall designate a different lending office if such designation will
avoid the need for giving such notice and will not, in the judgment of such
Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. If the Lender determines
that it may not lawfully continue to maintain any LIBOR Rate Advances to the
end of the applicable Interest Period, all of the affected Advances shall be
automatically converted to Base Rate Advances as of the date of the Lender s
notice.  

  Section 2.21            Capital Adequacy . In the event
that any Regulatory Change reduces or shall have the effect of reducing the
rate of return on the Lender s capital or the capital of its parent corporation
(by an amount the Lender deems material) as a consequence of its Loans  

27     

and/or any Letters of Credit or the Lender s
obligations to make Advances to cover Letters of Credit to a level below that
which such the Lender or its parent corporation could have achieved but for
such Regulatory Change (taking into account the Lender s policies and the
policies of its parent corporation with respect to capital adequacy), then the
Borrower shall, within 30 days after written notice and demand from the Lender,
pay to such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate the Lender or
its parent corporation for such reduction. Any determination by the Lender
under this Section and any certificate as to the amount of such reduction given
to the Borrower by the Lender shall be final, conclusive and binding for all
purposes, absent error.  

  Section 2.22            Funding Losses; LIBOR Rate
Advances . The Borrower shall compensate the Lender, upon its written
request, for all losses, expenses and liabilities which the Lender may sustain:
(i) if for any reason, other than a default by the Lender, a funding of a LIBOR
Rate Advance does not occur on the date specified therefor in the Borrower s
request or notice as to such Advance under Section 2.2 or 2.4, or (ii) if, for
whatever reason (including, but not limited to, acceleration of the maturity of
Advances following an Event of Default), any repayment of a LIBOR Rate Advance,
or a conversion pursuant to Section 2.20, occurs on any day other than the last
day of the Interest Period applicable thereto. The Lender s request for
compensation shall set forth the basis for the amount requested and shall be
final, conclusive and binding, unless Borrower contests the request for
compensation within thirty (30) days of such written request.  

  Section 2.23            Discretion of Lender as to Manner
of Funding . The Lender shall be entitled to fund and maintain its funding
of LIBOR Rate Advances in any manner it may elect, it being understood,
however, that for the purposes of this Agreement all determinations hereunder
(including, but not limited to, determinations under Section 2.22) shall be
made as if the Lender had actually funded and maintained each LIBOR Rate
Advance during the Interest Period for such Advance through the issuance of its
certificates of deposit, or the purchase of deposits, having a maturity
corresponding to the last day of the Interest Period and bearing an interest
rate equal to the LIBOR Rate for such Interest Period.  

  Section 2.24            Broken Funding Surcharge .
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Agreement giving the Borrower
the right to prepay any loan prior to the date it would otherwise be due and
payable, the Borrower agrees to provide three (3) Business Days  prior written
notice for any prepayment of a fixed rate balance and that in the event it
repays any fixed rate balance prior to its scheduled due date or prior to the
last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto (whether such payment is
made voluntarily, as a result of acceleration or otherwise), the Borrower will
pay to the Lender a surcharge in an amount which would result in the Lender
being made whole (on a present value basis) for the actual or imputed funding
losses incurred by the Lender as a result thereof. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event any fixed rate balance is repaid as a result of the
Borrower refinancing the loan with another lender, then in lieu of the
foregoing, the Borrower shall pay to the Lender a surcharge of 50% of an amount
sufficient (on a present value basis) to enable the Lender to maintain the
yield it would have  

28     

earned during the fixed rate period on the amount
repaid. Such surcharges will be calculated in accordance with methodology
established by the Lender.  

  Section 2.25            Taxes .  

  (a)           Any and all payments by the Borrower
hereunder or under the Notes shall be made free and clear of and without
deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions,
charges of withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto,  excluding ,
in the case of the Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income and
franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes (all such
non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and
liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter
referred to as   Taxes  ).  

  (b)           The Borrower agree to pay any present
or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes,
charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under
the Notes or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under,
or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes (hereinafter referred
to as   Other Taxes  ).  

  (c)           The Borrower shall indemnify the
Lender for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes imposed on or paid by the
Lender and any penalties, interest and expenses with respect thereto. Payments
on this indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date the Lender
makes written demand therefor.  

  (d)           Within 30 days after the date of any
payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the Lender, at its address
referred to on the signature page hereof, a certified copy of a receipt
evidencing payment thereof. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the
Notes by or on behalf of the Borrower through an account or branch outside the
United States or by or on behalf of the Borrower by a payor that is not a
United States person, if the Borrower determine that no Taxes are payable in
respect thereof, the Borrower shall furnish or shall cause such payor to furnish,
to the Lender, at such address, an opinion of counsel reasonably acceptable to
the Lender stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this
subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms   United States   and   United
States person   shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the
Internal Revenue Code.  

  (e)           If the Borrower shall be required by
law or regulation to make any deduction, withholding or backup withholding of
any taxes, levies, imposts, duties, fees, liabilities or similar charges of the
United States of America, any possession or territory of the United States of
America (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico) or any area subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States of America (  U.S. Taxes  ) from any
payments to a Lender pursuant to any Loan Document in respect of the
Obligations payable to such then or thereafter outstanding, the Borrower shall
make such  

29     

withholdings or deductions and pay the full amount
withheld or deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in
accordance with applicable law.  

  Section 2.26            Capitalization . The Borrower
agrees to purchase such equity in the Lender as the Lender may from time to
time require in accordance with its Bylaws.  

  Section 2.27            Security . Each party hereto acknowledges
that the Lender has a statutory first Lien on all of the Borrower s stock and
other equities in the Lender (the   CoBank Equities  ), respectively,
pursuant to 12 U.S.C.   2131. The Lender s statutory Lien on the CoBank
Equities shall be for the Lender s sole and exclusive benefit and shall not be
subject to this Agreement or any other Loan Document.  

  Section 2.28            Security Interests . The
payment and performance of the Secured Obligations shall be secured by the
Security Documents. The payment of the Revolving Note, Unpaid Drawings related
to a Seasonal Letter of Credit, and all fees, including Revolving Loan Fees,
associated therewith, is unsecured.  

   ARTICLE III 
CONDITIONS PRECEDENT   

  Section 3.1              Conditions Precedent to All
Loans and Letters of Credit . The obligation of the Lender to make any Loans
hereunder or to issue each Letter of Credit shall be subject to the fulfillment
of the following conditions on or before the Closing Date:  

  (a)            Documents . The Lender shall
have received the following:  

  (i)                                        The
Notes drawn to the order of the Lender executed by a duly authorized officer of
the Borrower and dated the Closing Date. 

  (ii)                                     The
Security Documents duly executed by the respective parties thereto. 

  (iii)                                  A
certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or other appropriate
officer) of the Borrower dated as of the Closing Date and certifying to the
following: 

  (A)                                 true
and accurate copy of the corporate resolutions of the Borrower authorizing the
execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents to which the Borrower
is a party contemplated hereby and thereby; 

  (B)                                   The
incumbency, names, titles and signatures of the officers of the Borrower
authorized to execute the Loan 

30     

Documents to which the Borrower is a party and to
request Advances;  

  (C)                                   A
true and accurate copy of the Articles of Incorporation (or the equivalent) of
the Borrower with all amendments thereto, certified by the appropriate
governmental official of the jurisdiction of organization as of a date
acceptable to the Lender; and 

  (D)                                  A true
and accurate copy of the bylaws (or other constitutive documents) for the
Borrower. 

  (iv)                                 A
certificate of good standing for the Borrower in the jurisdiction of its
formation or incorporation and each other jurisdiction where the character of
the properties owned or leased by the Borrower makes such qualification
necessary, certified by the appropriate governmental officials as of a date
acceptable to the Lender. 

  (v)                                    Insurance
certificates in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Lender listing
the Lender as loss payee thereof and indicating that the Borrower has obtained
insurance in compliance with Section 5.3 with respect to each of the businesses
and real properties of the Borrower in such amounts and with such carriers
reasonably acceptable to the Lender. 

  (vi)                                 Acknowledgment
of this Agreement and any pertinent Security Document by the parties to the
Intercreditor Agreement. 

  (b)            Compliance . The Borrower shall
have performed and complied with all agreements, terms and conditions contained
in this Agreement required to be performed or complied with by the Borrower
prior to or simultaneously with the Closing Date.  

  (c)            Filings, Registrations and
Recordings . Each document required by the Security Documents or under law
or reasonably requested by the Lender to be filed, registered or recorded in
order to create in favor of the Lender for the benefit of the Lender, a
perfected Lien on the collateral described therein, prior and superior in right
to any other Person (other than with respect to Liens expressly permitted by
Section 6.13), shall be in proper form for filing, registration or recordation,
any pledged collateral shall have been duly delivered to the Lender, and the
priority and perfection of the Liens created by the Security Documents shall
have been established to the satisfaction of the Lender and its counsel.  

  (d)            Financial Statements . The
Lender shall have received copies of the balance sheet and the related
statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows of  

31     

the Borrower for the most recently ended Fiscal
Quarter ending more than sixty (60) days prior to the Closing Date, the most
recent management letter issued by Borrower s certified public accountants, and
such other information as the Lender may reasonably request. All such financial
statements, including the related schedules and notes thereto, shall have been
prepared in accordance with GAAP  

  (e)            Other Matters .  All corporate and legal proceedings relating
to the Borrower and all instruments and agreements in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be satisfactory in scope,
form and substance to the Lender and its counsel, and the Lender shall have
received all information and copies of all documents, including records of
corporate proceedings, as the Lender or its counsel may reasonably have
requested in connection therewith,  such
documents where appropriate to be certified by proper corporate or governmental
authorities.  

  (f)             Fees and Expenses . The Lender
shall have received for itself and for the account of the Lender all fees and
other amounts due and payable by the Borrower on or prior to the Closing Date,
including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Lender payable
pursuant to Section 8.2.  

  (g)            Representations and Warranties .  The representations and warranties contained
in Article IV shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date and on
the date of each Advance or the date of issuance of each Letter of Credit, with
the same force an effect as if made on such date.  

  (h)            No Default . No Default or
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the Closing Date and
on the date of each Advance or the date of issuance of each Letter of Credit or
will exist after giving effect to the Advances made on such date or the Letters
of Credit so issued.  

  (i)             Notices and Requests . The
Lender shall have received the Borrower s request for such Loans as required
under Section 2.3 or its application for such Letters of Credit specified under
Section 2.10.  

  Any one or more of the conditions set forth above
which have not been satisfied by the Borrower on or prior to the date of
disbursement of the initial Advance under this Agreement shall not be deemed
permanently waived by the Lender or any Lender unless the Lender or such
Lender, as the case may be, shall waive the same in a writing which expressly
states that the waiver is permanent, and in all cases in which the waiver is
not stated to be permanent the Lender or any Lender may at any time subsequent
thereto insist upon compliance and satisfaction of any such condition as a
condition to any subsequent Advance or Letter of Credit hereunder and failure
by the Borrower to comply with any such condition within five (5) Banking Day s
written notice from the Lender or any Lender to the Borrower shall constitute
an Event of Default under this Agreement.  

32     

ARTICLE IV 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES   

  To induce the Lender to
enter into this Agreement and to make the Loans hereunder and to induce the
Lender to issue Letters of Credit, the Borrower represents and warrants to the
Lender:  

  Section 4.1             Organization, Standing, Etc. The
Borrower is a cooperative corporation duly incorporated and validly existing
and in good standing under the laws of State of Minnesota. The Borrower has all
requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted, to
enter into this Agreement, to issue the Notes and to perform its obligations
under the Loan Documents. The Borrower (a) holds all certificates of authority,
licenses and permits necessary to carry on its business as presently conducted
in each jurisdiction in which it is carrying on such business, except where the
failure to hold such certificates, licenses or permits would not constitute a
Material Adverse Occurrence, and (b) is duly qualified and in good standing as
a foreign company or corporation in each jurisdiction in which the character of
the properties owned, leased or operated by it or the business conducted by it
makes such qualification necessary and the failure so to qualify would permanently
preclude the Borrower from enforcing its rights with respect to any assets or
expose the Borrower to any Material Adverse Occurrence.  

  Section 4.2              Authorization and Validity .
The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Loan Documents
have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action by the Borrower.
This Agreement constitutes, and the Notes and other Loan Documents when
executed will constitute, the legal, valid and binding obligations of the
Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective
terms, subject to limitations as to enforceability which might result from
bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors 
rights generally and subject to limitations on the availability of equitable
remedies.  

  Section 4.3              No Conflict: No Default . The
execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Loan Documents will
not (a) violate any provision of any law, statute, rule or regulation or any
order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, determination or award of any court,
governmental agency or arbitrator presently in effect having applicability to
the Borrower, (b) violate or contravene any provision of the Articles of
Incorporation or bylaws of the Borrower, or (c) result in a breach of or
constitute a default under any indenture, loan or credit agreement or any other
agreement, lease or instrument to which the Borrower is a party or by which it
or any of its properties may be bound or result in the creation of any Lien
thereunder. Borrower is not in default under or in violation of any such law,
statute, rule or regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree,
determination or award or any such indenture, loan or credit agreement or other
agreement, lease or instrument in any case in which the consequences of such
default or violation could constitute a Material Adverse Occurrence.  

33     

Section 4.4              Government Consent . No
order, consent, approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing,
recording or registration with, or exemption by, any governmental or public
body or authority is required on the part of the Borrower to authorize, or is
required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of, or the
legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of, the Loan Documents,
except for any necessary filing or recordation of or with respect to any of the
Security Documents.  

  Section 4.5              Financial Statements and
Condition . The Borrower s audited financial statements as heretofore
furnished to the Lender, have been prepared in accordance with GAAP on a
consistent basis (except for the absence of footnotes and subject to year-end
audit adjustments as to the interim statements) and fairly present the
financial condition of the Borrower as at such dates and the results of their
operations and changes in financial position for the respective periods then
ended. As of the dates of such financial statements, no Borrower had any
material obligation, contingent liability, liability for taxes or long-term lease
obligation which is not reflected in such financial statements or in the notes
thereto.  

  Section 4.6              Litigation . Except as
disclosed on  Schedule 4.6 , there are no actions, suits or proceedings
pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting
the Borrower or any of its properties before any court or arbitrator, or any
governmental department, board, agency or other instrumentality which, if
determined adversely to the Borrower, would exceed $7,500,000, and there are no
unsatisfied judgments against the Borrower, the satisfaction or payment of
which would exceed $7,500,000.  

  Section 4.7              Environmental, Health and Safety
Laws . Except as set out on  Schedule 4.7 , to Borrower s knowledge
there does not exist any violation by the Borrower of any applicable federal,
state or local law, rule or regulation or order of any government, governmental
department, board, agency or other instrumentality relating to environmental,
pollution, health or safety matters which has, will or threatens to impose a
liability on Borrower or which has required or would require an expenditure by
Borrower to cure in excess of $7,500,000 per violation or $25,000,000 in the
aggregate. No property of the Borrower is used for the production, storage or
disposal of hazardous wastes, substances or materials, except for incidental
uses in the ordinary course of business. Borrower has not received any notice
to the effect that any part of its operations or properties is not in material
compliance with any such law, rule, regulation or order or notice that it or
its property is the subject of any governmental investigation evaluating
whether any remedial action is needed to respond to any release of any toxic or
hazardous waste or substance into the environment, which non-compliance or
remedial action could reasonably be expected to exceed $7,500,000 per
occurrence or $25,000,000 in the aggregate. Except as set out on  Schedule
4.7 , Borrower has no knowledge that it or its property will become subject
to environmental laws or regulations during the term of this Agreement,
compliance with which could reasonably be expected to require Capital
Expenditures that could reasonably be expected to exceed $7,500,000 per
occurrence or $25,000,000 in the aggregate.  

  Section 4.8              ERISA . Each Plan is in
substantial compliance with all applicable requirements of ERISA and the Code
and with all material applicable rulings and regulations  

34     

issued under the provisions of ERISA and the Code
setting forth those requirements. No Reportable Event has occurred and is
continuing with respect to any Plan. All of the minimum funding standards
applicable to such Plans have been satisfied and there exists no event or
condition which would reasonably be expected to result in the institution of
proceedings to terminate any Plan under Section 4042 of ERISA.  

  Section 4.9              Federal Reserve Regulations .
Borrower is not engaged principally or as one of its important activities in
the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying
margin stock (as defined in Regulation U of the Board). The value of all margin
stock owned by the Borrower does not constitute more than 25% of the value of
the assets of the Borrower.  

  Section 4.10            Title to Property; Leases: Liens;
Subordination . The Borrower has (a) good and marketable title to its real
properties and (b) good and sufficient title to, or valid, subsisting and
enforceable leasehold interest in, its other material properties, including all
real properties, other properties and assets, referred to as owned by a
Borrower in the most recent financial statement referred to in Section 5.1
(other than property disposed of since the date of such financial statements in
the ordinary course of business). None of such properties is subject to a Lien,
except as allowed under Section 6.13. No Borrower has subordinated any of its
rights under any obligation owing to it to the rights of any other person.  

  Section 4.11            Taxes . The Borrower has filed
all federal, state and local tax returns required to be filed and has paid or
made provision for the payment of all taxes due and payable pursuant to such
returns and pursuant to any assessments made against it or any of its property
and all other taxes, fees and other charges imposed on it or any of its
property by any governmental authority (other than taxes, fees or charges the
amount or validity of which is currently being contested in good faith by
appropriate proceedings and with respect to which reserves in accordance with
GAAP have been provided on the books of the Borrower). No tax Liens have been
filed and no material claims are being asserted with respect to any such taxes,
fees or charges. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the
Borrower in respect of taxes and other governmental charges are adequate and
the Borrower knows of no proposed material tax assessment against it or any
basis therefor.  

  Section 4.12            Trademarks, Patents . The
Borrower possesses or has the right to use all of the patents, trademarks,
trade names, service marks and copyrights, and applications therefor, and all
technology, know-how, processes, methods and designs used in or necessary for
the conduct of its business, without known conflict with the rights of others.  

  Section 4.13            Burdensome Restriction .
Borrower is not a party to or otherwise bound by any indenture, loan or credit
agreement or any lease or other agreement or instrument or subject to any
charter, corporate or partnership restriction exceeding $7,500,000.  

  Section 4.14            Force Majeure . Since the date
of the most recent financial statement referred to in Section 5.1, the
business, properties and other assets of the Borrower have not been  

35     

materially and adversely affected in any way as the
result of any fire or other casualty, strike, lockout, or other labor trouble,
embargo, sabotage, confiscation, condemnation, riot, civil disturbance,
activity of armed forces or act of God.  

  Section 4.15            Investment Company Act .
Borrower is not an  investment company  or a company  controlled  by an
investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended.  

  Section 4.16            Public Utility Holding Company Act .
Borrower is not a  holding company  or a  subsidiary company  of a holding
company or an  affiliate  of a holding company or of a subsidiary company of a
holding company within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935, as amended.  

  Section 4.17            Full Disclosure . Subject to
the following sentence, neither the financial statements referred to in Section
5.1 nor any other certificate, written statement, exhibit or report furnished
by or on behalf of the Borrower in connection with or pursuant to this
Agreement contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state
any material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein
not misleading. Certificates or statements furnished by or on behalf of the
Borrower to the Lender consisting of projections or forecasts of future results
or events have been prepared in good faith and based on good faith estimates
and assumptions of the management of the Borrower, and the Borrower has no
reason to believe that such projections or forecasts are not reasonable.  

  Section 4.18            Subsidiaries . The Borrower has
no Subsidiaries other than those disclosed to the Lender in  Schedule 4.18 .  

  Section 4.19            Labor Matters . There are no
pending or threatened strikes, lockouts or slowdowns against either Borrower.
Borrower has not been or is not in violation in any material respect of the
Fair Labor Standards Act or any other applicable Federal, state, local or
foreign law dealing with such matters. All payments due from the Borrower on
account of wages and employee health and welfare insurance and other benefits
(in each case, except for de minimus amounts), have been paid or accrued as a
liability on the books of the Borrower. The consummation of the transactions
contemplated under the Loan Documents will not give rise to any right of
termination or right of renegotiation on the part of any union under any
collective bargaining agreement to which the Borrower is bound.  

  Section 4.20            Solvency . After the making of
any Advance and after giving effect thereto, (a) the fair value of the assets
of the Borrower, at a fair valuation, will exceed its debts and liabilities,
subordinated, contingent or otherwise; (b) the present fair saleable value of
the property of the Borrower will be greater than the amount that will be
required to pay the probable liability of its debts and other liabilities,
subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and other liabilities become
absolute and matured; (c) the Borrower will be able to pay its debts and
liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and
liabilities become absolute and matured; and (d) Borrower will not have
unreasonably small capital with which to  

36     

conduct the business in which it is engaged as such
business is proposed to be conducted following the Closing Date.  

   ARTICLE V 
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS   

  Until any obligation of
the Lender hereunder to make the Loans and to issue Letters of Credit shall
have expired or been terminated and the Notes and all of the other Obligations
have been paid in full and all outstanding Letters of Credit shall have expired
or the liability of the Lender thereon shall have otherwise been discharged:  

  Section 5.1              Financial Statements and Reports .
The Borrower will furnish to the  Lender: 

  (a)           As soon as available and in any event
within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the
consolidated and consolidating financial statements of the Borrower and their
consolidated Subsidiaries consisting of at least statements of income, cash
flow and changes in the members  equity, and a consolidated balance sheet as at
the end of such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form
corresponding figures from the previous annual audit, certified without
qualification by Eide Bailly, LLP, or another independent certified public
accountants of recognized national standing selected by the Borrower and
reasonably acceptable to the Lender, together with any management letters,
management reports or other supplementary comments or reports to the Borrower s
board of director furnished by such accountants.  

  (b)           As soon as available and in any event
within 5 days after the Borrower s quarterly filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, unaudited consolidated statements of income, cash flow and
changes in the members  equity for the Borrower and their consolidated
Subsidiaries for such quarter and for the period from the beginning of such
fiscal year to the end of such quarter, and a consolidated balance sheet of the
Borrower as at the end of such quarter, setting forth in comparative form
figures for the corresponding period for the preceding fiscal year, accompanied
by a certificate signed by an officer of the Borrower stating that such
financial statements present fairly the financial condition of the Borrower and
that the same have been prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for the
absence of footnotes and subject to year-end audit adjustments as to the interim
statements).  

  (c)           As soon as practicable and in any
event within 45 days after the end of each Fiscal Quarter, a Compliance
Certificate in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit D  signed by an
officer of the Borrower demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance (or
noncompliance, as the case may be) with Section 6.11(h), Section 6.15, Section
6.16 and Section 6.17, as of the end of such quarter and stating that as at the
end of such quarter there did not exist any Default or Event of Default or, if
such Default or Event of  

37     

Default existed, specifying the nature and period of
existence thereof and what action the Borrower propose to take with respect
thereto.  

  (d)           As soon as practicable and in any
event within 30 days after the end of each month, a Borrowing Base Certificate
signed by an officer of Borrower, reporting the Borrowing Base as of the last
day of such month.  

  (e)           As soon as practicable and in any
event not more than 60 days after the end of any fiscal year, annual budgets
and forecasts of operations, all in reasonable detail and reasonably
satisfactory in scope to the Lender.  

  (f)            As soon as practicable and in any
event not more than 60 days after the end of any fiscal year, an annual capital
expenditure budget. The Borrower will also furnish a revised budget if
increases of more than 20% over the original capital expenditures budget are
approved by the board of directors.  

  (g)           With respect to Crystech, annual
financial statements within 120 days after and as of the end of each fiscal
year substantially in the form of (a) above, and quarterly financial statements
within 60 days after as of the end of each Fiscal Quarter in the form of (b)
above.  

  (h)           Immediately upon any officer of the
Borrower becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, a written notice
from the Borrower describing the nature thereof and what action Borrower
propose to take with respect thereto.  

  (i)            Immediately upon any officer of the
Borrower becoming aware of any matter resulting in expenditures exceeding
$7,500,000, a written notice from the Borrower describing the nature thereof
and what action Borrower propose to take with respect thereto.  

  (j)            Immediately upon any officer of the
Borrower becoming aware of (i) the commencement of any action, suit,
investigation, proceeding or arbitration before any court or arbitrator or any
governmental department, board, agency or other instrumentality affecting a
Borrower or any property of such Person, or to which a Borrower is a party
(other than litigation where the insurance insures against the damages claimed
and the insurer has assumed defense of the litigation without reservation) and
in which an adverse determination or result could reasonably be expected to
constitute a Material Adverse Occurrence; or (ii) any adverse development which
occurs in any litigation, arbitration or governmental investigation or
proceeding previously disclosed by a Borrower which, if determined adversely to
a Borrower, could reasonably be expected to result in expenditures exceeding
$7,500,000, a written notice from the Borrower describing the nature and status
thereof and what action the Borrower propose to take with respect thereto.  

38     

(k)           From time to time, such other
information regarding the business, operation and financial condition of the
Borrower as any Lender may reasonably request.  

  Section 5.2              Existence.  The Borrower will
maintain its corporate existence in good standing under the laws of its
jurisdiction of organization and its qualification to transact business in each
jurisdiction where failure so to qualify would permanently preclude the
Borrower from enforcing its rights with respect to any material asset or would
expose the Borrower to any material liability.  

  Section 5.3              Insurance . The Borrower
shall maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies such
insurance as may be required by law and such other insurance in such amounts
and against such hazards as is customary in the case of reputable firms engaged
in the same or similar business and similarly situated.  

  Section 5.4              Payment of Taxes and Claims .
The Borrower shall file all tax returns and reports which are required by law
to be filed by it and will pay before they become delinquent all taxes,
assessments and governmental charges and levies imposed upon it or its property
and all claims or demands of any kind (including but not limited to those of
suppliers, mechanics, carriers, warehouses, landlords and other like Persons)
which, if unpaid, might result in the creation of a Lien upon its property;  provided 
that the foregoing items need not be paid if they are being contested in good
faith by appropriate proceedings, and as long as the Borrower s title to its
property is not materially adversely affected, its use of such property in the
ordinary course of its business is not materially interfered with and adequate
reserves with respect thereto have been set aside on the Borrower s books in
accordance with GAAP.  

  Section 5.5              Inspection.  The Borrower
shall permit any Person designated by the Lender or any Lender to visit and
inspect any of the collateral and the properties, books and financial records
of the Borrower, to examine and to make copies of the books of accounts and
other financial records of the Borrower, and to discuss the affairs, finances
and accounts of the Borrower with, and to be advised as to the same by, its
officers at such reasonable times and intervals as the Lender or any Lender may
designate. Provided that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, such inspections shall take place no more frequently than annually
unless the Borrower first consent to additional inspections.  

  Section 5.6              Maintenance of Properties .
The Borrower will maintain its properties used or useful in the conduct of its
business in good condition, repair and working order, and supplied with all
necessary equipment, and make all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements,
betterments and improvements thereto, all as may be necessary so that the
business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously
conducted at all times.  

  Section 5.7              Books and Records . The
Borrower will keep adequate and proper records and books of account in which
full and correct entries will be made of its dealings, business and affairs.  

39     

Section 5.8              Compliance . The Borrower
will comply in all material respects with all laws, rules, regulations, orders,
writs, judgments, injunctions, decrees or awards to which it may be subject;  provided ,
 however , that failure so to comply shall not be a breach of this
covenant if such failure cannot reasonably be expected to constitute a Material
Adverse Occurrence and the Borrower is acting in good faith and with reasonable
dispatch to cure such noncompliance.  

  Section 5.9              ERISA . The Borrower will
maintain each Plan in compliance with all material applicable requirements of
ERISA and of the Code and with all applicable rulings and regulations issued
under the provisions of ERISA and of the Code.  

  Section 5.10            Environmental Matters: Reporting .
The Borrower will observe and comply with all laws, rules, regulations and
orders of any government or government agency relating to health, safety,
pollution, hazardous materials or other environmental matters to the extent
non-compliance could result in a material liability or otherwise constitute a
Material Adverse Occurrence. The Borrower will give the Lender prompt written
notice of any violation as to any environmental matter by the Borrower and of
the commencement of any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to
health, safety or environmental matters (a) in which an adverse determination
or result could result in the revocation of or have a material adverse effect
on any operating permits, air emission permits, water discharge permits,
hazardous waste permits or other permits held by the Borrower which are
material to the operations of the Borrower, or (b) which will or threatens to
impose a material liability on the Borrower to any Person or which will require
expenditures by the Borrower exceeding $7,500,000 to cure any alleged problem
or violation.  

  Section 5.11            Further Assurances . The
Borrower shall promptly correct any defect or error that may be discovered in
any Loan Document or in the execution, acknowledgment or recordation thereof.
Promptly upon request by the Lender or the Required Lender, the Borrower also
shall do, execute, acknowledge, deliver, record, re-record, file, re-file,
register and re register, any and all deeds, conveyances, mortgages, deeds of
trust, trust deeds, assignments, estoppel certificates, financing statements
and continuations thereof, notices of assignment, transfers, certificates,
assurances and other instruments as the Lender or the Required Lender may
reasonable require from time to time in order: (a) to carry out more
effectively the purposes of the Loan Documents; (b) to perfect and maintain the
validity, effectiveness and priority of any security interests intended to be
created by the Loan Documents including, without limitation, the delivery of a
landlord waiver from any landlord required by the Lender or the Required
Lender; and (c) to better assure, convey, grant, assign, transfer, preserve,
protect and confirm unto the Lender the rights granted now or hereafter
intended to be granted to the Lender under any Loan Document or under any other
instrument executed in connection with any Loan Document or that the Borrower
may be or become bound to convey, mortgage or assign to the Lender for the
benefit of the Lender in order to carry out the intention or facilitate the
performance of the provisions of any Loan Document. The Borrower shall furnish
to the Lender evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Lender of every such
recording, filing or registration.  

40     

Section 5.12            Compliance with Terms of Material
Contracts . The Borrower shall make all payments and otherwise perform all
obligations in respect of all material contracts to which the Borrower is a
party, the failure of which would constitute a Material Adverse Occurrence.  

  Section 5.13            Eligibility . The Borrower
shall maintain its status as an entity eligible to borrow from the Lender. If
requested, the Borrower agrees to submit any documentation reasonably requested
by the Lender to evidence such eligibility.  

   ARTICLE VI 
NEGATIVE COVENANTS   

  Until any obligation of
the Lender hereunder to make the Loans or to issue Letters of Credit shall have
expired or been terminated and the Notes and all of the other Obligations have
been paid in full and all outstanding Letters of Credit shall have expired or
the liability of the Lender thereon shall have otherwise been discharged:  

  Section 6.1              Merger . The Borrower will
not merge or consolidate or enter into any analogous reorganization or
transaction with any Person or liquidate, wind up or dissolve itself (or suffer
any liquidation or dissolution).  

  Section 6.2              Disposition of Assets . The
Borrower will not directly or indirectly, sell, assign, lease, convey, transfer
or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or a series of
transactions) any property (including accounts and notes receivable, with or
without recourse) or enter into any agreement to do any of the foregoing,
except:  

  (a)           dispositions of inventory in the
ordinary course of business;  

  (b)           dispositions of used, worn-out or
obsolete equipment, furniture, furnishings, machinery or fixtures if the value
of such disposed equipment, furniture, furnishings, machinery or fixtures at
the time of disposal is less than $7,500,000 in the aggregate in any fiscal
year; and  

  (c)           other dispositions of property if the
net book value of the disposed property does not exceed in any fiscal year, 5%
of the Borrower s total consolidated assets as shown on its balance sheet as of
the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year.  

  Section 6.3              Plans . The Borrower will not
permit any event to occur or condition to exist which would permit any Plan to
terminate under any circumstances which would cause the Lien provided for in
Section 4068 of ERISA to attach to any assets of the Borrower.  

  Section 6.4              Change in Nature of Business .
The Borrower will not make any material change in the nature of the business of
the Borrower, as carried on at the date hereof.  

41  

Section 6.5              Subsidiaries . The Borrower
will not form or acquire any Person which would thereby become a Subsidiary,
with the exception of Investments permitted under Section 6.11.  

  Section 6.6              Negative Pledges . Except as
otherwise permitted hereunder, the Borrower will not enter into any agreement,
bond, note or other instrument with or for the benefit of any Person other than
the Lender which would (i) prohibit the Borrower from granting, or otherwise
limit the ability of the Borrower to grant, to the Lender any Lien on any
assets or properties of the Borrower, or (ii) require the Borrower to grant a
Lien to any other Person if the Borrower grants any Lien to the Lender.  

  Section 6.7              Restricted Payments . The
Borrower will not make any Restricted Payments if a Default or Event of Default
has occurred and is continuing or if a Default or Event of Default would occur
as a result of such Restricted Payment.  

  Section 6.8              Transactions with Affiliates .
The Borrower will not enter into any transaction with any Affiliate of the
Borrower, except upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable than the
Borrower would obtain in a comparable arm s-length transaction with a Person
not an Affiliate.  

  Section 6.9              Accounting Changes . The
Borrower will not make any significant change in accounting treatment or
reporting practices, except as required by GAAP, or change its fiscal year.  

  Section 6.10            Subordinated Debt . The
Borrower will not (a) make any scheduled payment of the principal of or
interest on any Subordinated Debt that would be prohibited by the terms of such
Subordinated Debt and any related subordination agreement; (b) directly or
indirectly make any prepayment on or purchase, redeem or defease any
Subordinated Debt or offer to do so (whether such prepayment, purchase or
redemption, or offer with respect thereto, is voluntary or mandatory); (c)
amend or cancel the subordination provisions applicable to any Subordinated
Debt; (d) take or omit to take any action if as a result of such action or
omission the subordination of such Subordinated Debt, or any part thereof, to
the Obligations might be terminated, impaired or adversely affected; or (e)
omit to give the Lender prompt notice of any notice received from any holder of
Subordinated Debt, or any trustee therefor, or of any default under any
agreement or instrument relating to any Subordinated Debt by reason whereof
such Subordinated Debt might become or be declared to be due or payable.  

  Section 6.11            Investments . The Borrower will
not acquire for value, make, have or hold any Investments, except:  

  (a)           Investments existing on the date of
this Agreement and described on  Schedule 6.11 .  

42     

(b)           Travel advances to management
personnel and employees in the ordinary course of business.  

  (c)           Investments in readily marketable
direct obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States or any agency
thereof and supported by the full faith and credit of the United States.  

  (d)           Certificates of deposit or bankers 
acceptances issued by any commercial bank organized under the laws of the United
States or any State thereof which has (i) combined capital and surplus of at
least $100,000,000, and (ii) a credit rating with respect to its unsecured
indebtedness from a nationally recognized rating service that is reasonably
satisfactory to the Lender.  

  (e)           Commercial paper given the highest
rating by a nationally recognized rating service.  

  (f)            Repurchase agreements relating to
securities issued or guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United
States of America with a term of not more than seven (7) days;  provided 
all such agreements shall require physical delivery of the securities securing
such repurchase agreement, except those delivered through the Federal Reserve
Book Entry System.  

  (g)           Other readily marketable Investments
in debt securities which are reasonably acceptable to the Required Lender.  

  (h)           Any other Investment if the aggregate
consideration therefor does not exceed $7,500,000.  

  Any Investments under clauses (c), (d), (e) or (f)
above must mature within one year of the acquisition thereof by the Borrower.  

  Section 6.12            Indebtedness . The Borrower
will not incur, create, issue, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness,
except:  

  (a)           The Obligations.  

  (b)           Current Liabilities, other than for
borrowed money, incurred in the ordinary course of business.  

  (c)           Indebtedness existing on the date of
this Agreement and disclosed on  Schedule 6.12 , but not including any
extension or refinancing thereof.  

  (d)           Indebtedness secured by Liens
permitted under Section 6.13 hereof and disclosed on  Schedule 6.12 .  

43     

Section 6.13            Liens . The Borrower will not
create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien, or enter into, or make any
commitment to enter into, any arrangement for the acquisition of any property
through conditional sale, lease-purchase or other title retention agreements,
with respect to any property now owned or hereafter acquired by the Borrower,
except:  

  (a)           Liens granted to the Lender under the
Security Documents to secure the Obligations.  

  (b)           Liens existing on the date of this
Agreement and disclosed on  Schedule 6.13 .  

  (c)           Deposits or pledges to secure payment
of insurance, old age pensions or other social security obligations, in the
ordinary course of business of the Borrower.  

  (d)           Liens for taxes, fees, assessments
and governmental charges not delinquent or to the extent that payment therefor
shall not at the time be required to be made in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.4.  

  (e)           Liens of carriers, warehousemen,
mechanics and materialmen, and other like Liens arising in the ordinary course
of business, for sums not due or to the extent that payment therefor shall not
at the time be required to be made in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.4.  

  (f)            Liens incurred or deposits or
pledges made or given in connection with, or to secure payment of, indemnity,
performance or other similar bonds.  

  (g)           Liens arising solely by virtue of any
statutory or common law provision relating to banker s liens, rights of set-off
or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained
with a creditor depository institution;  provided    that  (i) such
deposit account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject
to restriction against access by a Borrower in excess of those set forth by
regulations promulgated by the Board, and (ii) such deposit account is not
intended by the Borrower to provide collateral to the depository institution.  

  (h)           The interest of any lessor under any
Capitalized Lease entered into after the Closing Date or purchase money Liens
on property acquired after the Closing Date; provided, that, (i) the
Indebtedness secured thereby is otherwise permitted by this Agreement and (ii)
such Liens are limited to the property acquired and do not secure Indebtedness
other than the related Capitalized Lease Obligations or the purchase price of
such property.  

  (i)            Liens created in connection with
transactions permitted under  Section 6.12(e) hereof.   

44     

(j)            Lender s statutory Lien on the
CoBank Equities.  

  Section 6.14            Contingent Liabilities . The
Borrower will not be or become liable on any Contingent Obligations except
Contingent Obligations existing on the date of this Agreement and described on  Schedule
6.14  and Contingent Obligations for the benefit of the Lender.  

  Section 6.15            Net Working Capital . As of the
end of each Fiscal Quarter, other than fiscal year end, Net Working Capital of
the Borrower and their consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding ProGold and
Crystech) shall not be less than $15,000,000. As of the end of each fiscal
year, Net Working Capital of the Borrower and their consolidated Subsidiaries
shall not be less than $35,000,000.  

  Section 6.16            Capitalization Ratio . As of
the end of each Fiscal Quarter, the Capitalization Ratio of the Borrower and
their consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding ProGold and Crystech) shall not be
more than 0.55 to 1.0, on a consolidated basis.  

  Section 6.17            Interest Coverage Ratio . As of
the end of each Fiscal Quarter, the Interest Coverage Ratio of the Borrower and
their consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding ProGold and Crystech) will not be
less than 2.5 to 1.0.  

   ARTICLE VII 
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES   

  Section 7.1              Events of Default . The
occurrence of any one or more of the following events shall constitute an Event
of Default:  

  (a)           The Borrower shall fail to make when
due, whether by acceleration or otherwise, any payment of principal of any Note
and such failure to pay shall continue for five (5) Banking Days after the date
on which such payment was due.  

  (b)           The Borrower shall fail to make when
due, whether by acceleration or otherwise, any payment of interest on any Note
or on or of any other Obligation required to be made to the Lender or any
Lender pursuant to this Agreement and such failure to pay shall continue for
five (5) Banking Days after the date on which such payment was due.  

  (c)           Any representation or warranty made
by or on behalf of the Borrower in this Agreement or any other Loan Document or
by or on behalf of the Borrower in any certificate, statement, report or
document herewith or hereafter furnished to any Lender or the Lender pursuant
to this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall prove to have been false or
misleading in any material respect on the date as of which the facts set forth
are stated or certified.  

45     

(d)            The Borrower shall fail to
comply with Sections 2,17, 5.2, 5.3 or 5.13  hereof
or any Section of Article VI hereof.   

   (e)            The Borrower shall fail to
comply with any other agreement, covenant,  condition,
provision or term contained in this Agreement (other than those hereinabove  set
forth in this Section 7.1) and such failure to comply shall continue for 30
calendar days after whichever of the following dates is the earliest:  (i) the date the Borrower or  the Borrower give notice of such failure to the
Lender, (ii) the date the Borrower should  have given notice of such
failure to the Lender pursuant to Section 5.1, or (iii) the date  the Lender or any Lender gives notice of such
failure to the Borrower.   

   (f)             Any default (however
denominated or defined) shall occur under any  Security
Document.   

   (g)            The Borrower shall become
insolvent or shall generally not pay its debts as they mature or shall apply
for, shall consent to, or shall acquiesce in the appointment  of a custodian, trustee or receiver of the
Borrower or for a substantial part of the property   thereof or, in the absence of such application,
consent or acquiescence, a custodian,  trustee or receiver shall be
appointed for the Borrower or for a substantial part of the property thereof
and shall not be discharged within 45 days, or the Borrower shall make  an assignment for the benefit of creditors.   

   (h)           Any bankruptcy, reorganization, debt
arrangement or other proceedings  under any bankruptcy or insolvency law
shall be instituted by or against the Borrower, and, if instituted against the
Borrower, shall have been consented to or acquiesced in by the Borrower, or
shall remain undismissed for 60 days, or an order for relief shall have  been entered against the Borrower.   

   (i)            Any dissolution or liquidation
proceeding shall be instituted by or against  the Borrower, and, if instituted
against the Borrower, shall be consented to or acquiesced in by the Borrower or
shall remain for 45 days undismissed.  

   (j)            A judgment or judgments for the
payment of money in excess of the sum  of $7,500,000 in the aggregate
shall be rendered against the Borrower and either (i) the judgment creditor
executes on such judgment or (ii) such judgment remains unpaid or undischarged
for more than 60 days from the date of entry thereof or such longer period
during which execution of such judgment shall be stayed during an appeal from
such  judgment.   

   (k)           The maturity of any material
interest-bearing Indebtedness of the  Borrower (other than Indebtedness
under this Agreement) shall be accelerated, or the  Borrower shall fail to pay any such material Indebtedness when due
(after the lapse of any applicable grace period) or, in the case of such
Indebtedness payable on demand,  when demanded (after the lapse of any
applicable grace period), or any event shall occur  

46     

or condition shall exist and shall continue for more
than the period of grace, if any, applicable thereto and shall have the effect
of causing, or permitting the holder of any such Indebtedness or any trustee or
other Person acting on behalf of such holder to cause, such material
Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity or to realize upon any
collateral given as security therefor. For purposes of this Section,
Indebtedness of the Borrower shall be deemed  material  if it exceeds
$7,500,000 as to any item of Indebtedness or in the aggregate for all items of
Indebtedness with respect to which any of the events described in this Section
7.1(k) has occurred.  

  (l)            Any execution or attachment shall be
issued whereby any substantial part of the property of the Borrower shall be
taken or attempted to be taken and the same shall not have been vacated or
stayed within 30 days after the issuance thereof.  

  (m)          Any Security Document shall, at any
time, cease to be in full force and effect or shall be judicially declared null
and void, or the validity or enforceability thereof shall be contested by the
Borrower, or the Lender or the Lender shall cease to have a valid and perfected
security interest having the priority contemplated thereunder in all of the
collateral described therein, other than by action or inaction of the Lender or
the Lender if (i) the aggregate value of the collateral affected by any of the
foregoing exceeds $1,000,000 and (ii) any of the foregoing shall remain
unremedied for twenty (20) days or more after receipt of notice thereof by the
Borrower from the Lender.  

  (n)           Any Change of Control shall occur.  

  Section
7.2              Remedies . If any
Event of Default described in Sections 7.1 (g), (h) or (i) shall occur, the
Loans shall automatically terminate and the Notes and all other Obligations
shall automatically become immediately due and payable, and the Borrower shall
without demand cash collateralize an amount equal to the aggregate face amount
of all outstanding Letters of Credit. Upon the occurrence of any of the
foregoing events, the Lender may exercise all rights and remedies under any of
the Loan Documents, and enforce all rights and remedies under any applicable
law.  

  Section
7.3              Offset . In addition
to the remedies set forth in Section 7.2, upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default and thereafter while the same be continuing, the Borrower hereby
irrevocably authorizes the Lender to set off any Obligations owed to the Lender
against all deposits and credits of the Borrower with, and any and all claims
of the Borrower against, the Lender. Such right shall exist whether or not the
Lender shall have made any demand hereunder or under any other Loan Document,
whether or not the Obligations, or any part thereof, or deposits and credits
held for the account of the Borrower is or are matured or unmatured, and
regardless of the existence or adequacy of any collateral, guaranty or any
other security, right or remedy available to the Lender. The Lender agrees
that, as promptly as is reasonably possible after the exercise of any such
setoff right, it shall notify the Borrower of its exercise of such setoff
right;  provided ,  however , that the failure of the Lender to
provide such notice shall not affect the validity of the exercise of such
setoff rights.  Nothing in this Agreement
shall be  

47     

deemed a waiver or prohibition of or restriction on the Lender to all
rights of banker s Lien, setoff and counterclaim available pursuant to law.  

   ARTICLE VIII  
 MISCELLANEOUS    

   Section
8.1              Modifications .
Neither this Agreement, any other Loan Document, nor  any terms hereof or
thereof may be amended, supplemented or modified except in accordance with the
provisions of this Section 8.1. The Lender and the Borrower may, from time to
time, (i) enter into written amendments, supplements or modifications hereto
and to the other Loan  Documents for the
purpose of adding any provisions to this Agreement or the other Loan   Documents or changing in any manner the rights of
the Lender or of the Borrower hereunder or   thereunder or (ii) waive, on such terms and conditions as the Lender
may specify in such instrument, any of the requirements of this Agreement or
the other Loan Documents or any  Default or Event of Default and its
consequences.  

   Section
8.2              Expenses.  Whether
or not the transactions contemplated hereby are  consummated, the
Borrower agrees to reimburse the Lender upon demand for all reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses paid or incurred by the Lender (including the fees and
expenses of outside legal counsel to the Lender, and any filing and recording
costs) in connection with the negotiation, preparation, approval, review,
execution, delivery, administration, amendment,  modification and interpretation of this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents and any  commitment letters relating thereto. The Borrower
shall also reimburse the Lender upon demand for all reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses (including expenses of legal counsel) paid or incurred  by the Lender in connection with the collection
and enforcement of this Agreement and any  other Loan Document. The
obligations of the Borrower under this Section shall survive any termination of
this Agreement.  

  Section 8.3              Waivers, etc.  No failure on
the part of the Lender or the holder of a Note to exercise and no delay in
exercising any power or right hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall
operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any
power or right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise
of any other power or right. The remedies herein and in the other Loan
Documents provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by
law.  

   Section
8.4              Notices.  Except
when telephonic notice is expressly authorized by this  Agreement, any
notice or other communication to any party in connection with this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be sent by manual delivery, facsimile
transmission, overnight courier or United States mail (postage prepaid)
addressed to such party at the address specified on the  signature page hereof, or at such other address as such party shall
have specified to the other   party
hereto in writing. All periods of notice shall be measured from the date of
delivery thereof if manually delivered, from the date of sending thereof if
sent by facsimile transmission, from   the
first Banking Day after the date of sending if sent by overnight courier, or
from four days   

48     

after the date of mailing if mailed;  provided ,  however ,
that any notice to the Lender under Article II hereof shall be deemed to have
been given only when received by the Lender.  

   Section 8.5              Taxes.  The Borrower agrees to
pay, and save the Lender harmless from  all liability for, any stamp or
other taxes which may be payable with respect to the execution or delivery of
this Agreement or the issuance of the Notes, which obligation of the Borrower
shall  survive the termination of this
Agreement.   

  Section 8.6              Successors
and Assigns; Participations; Purchasing Lender.   

   (a)             This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the  Borrower,
the Lender, all future holders of the Notes, and their respective successors and
 assigns, except that the Borrower may not
assign or transfer any of their rights or  obligations under this
Agreement without the prior written consent of the Lender.  

   (b)             The Lender may, at any time in the ordinary course of its commercial  banking
business and in accordance with applicable law, with the consent of the Lender
and the Borrower (neither of which consents shall be unreasonably withheld or
delayed; and if an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then
consent of the Borrower shall not be required), sell to one or more banks or
other financial institutions  (  Participants  )
participating interests in the Revolving Loan, the Term Loans or other   Obligations owing to the Lender, the Revolving
Note held by the Lender, any Term   Notes
held by the Lender, or any other interest of the Lender hereunder. The Borrower
 agrees that if amounts outstanding under this Agreement, the Revolving
Note, the Term Notes and the Loan Documents are due and unpaid, or shall have
been declared or shall  have become due and
payable upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, each   Participant shall be deemed to have, to the
extent permitted by applicable law, the right of  setoff in respect of
its participating interest in amounts owing under this Agreement and the
Revolving Note, any Term Note or other Loan Document to the same extent as if
the  amount of its participating interest were
owing directly to it as a Lender under this   Agreement or the Revolving Note, any Term Note or other Loan Document;  provided.
   that such right of setoff shall
be subject to the obligation of such Participant to share with   the Lender, and the Lender agree to share with
such Participant. The Borrower also  agrees that each Participant shall
be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.19, 2.20, 2.21,  2.22 and 8.2 with respect to its participation in
the Loans;  provided,  that no Participant  shall be entitled to
receive any greater amount pursuant to such subsection than the Lender would
have been entitled to receive in respect of the amount of the participation
transferred by the Lender to such Participant had no such transfer occurred.  

   (c)            The Borrower shall not be
liable for any costs incurred by the Lender in  effecting any participation under subparagraph (b) of this subsection.   

   (d)             The Lender may disclose to any Participant and to any prospective  Participant
any and all financial information in the Lender s possession concerning the  

49     

Borrower or any of their Subsidiaries which has been
delivered to the Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of their
Subsidiaries pursuant to this Agreement or which  has been delivered to the Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower or any
of their  Subsidiaries in connection with the Lender s credit evaluation
of the Borrower or any of  its Subsidiaries
prior to entering into this Agreement,  provided  that prior to disclosing
  such information, the Lender shall
first obtain the agreement of such prospective   Participant to comply with the provisions of Section 8.7.   

  (e)            Notwithstanding
any other provision in this Agreement, any Lender may  at any time create
a security interest in, or pledge, all or any portion of its rights under and
interest in this Agreement and any note held by it in favor of any federal
reserve bank  in accordance with Regulation A
of the Board or U. S. Treasury Regulation 31 CFR   203.14, and such Federal
Reserve Bank may enforce such pledge or security interest in  any manner
permitted under applicable law.  

   Section
8.7              Confidentiality of
Information.  The Lender shall use reasonable efforts to  assure that
information about the Borrower and its operations, affairs and financial
condition, not generally disclosed to the public or to trade and other
creditors, which is furnished to the Lender  pursuant
to the provisions hereof is used only for the purposes of this Agreement and
any other  relationship between the Lender and the Borrower and shall not
be divulged to any Person other  than the
Lender, their Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees
and agents,  except: (a) to their attorneys and accountants, (b) in
connection with the enforcement of the  rights
of the Lender hereunder and under the Loan Documents or otherwise in connection
with applicable litigation, (c) in connection with participations and the
solicitation of prospective  participants referred to in the immediately
preceding Section, (d) if such information is generally  available to the public other than as a result of disclosure by the
Lender, (e) to any direct or   indirect
contractual counterparty in any hedging arrangement or such contractual
counterparty s   professional advisor,
(f) to any nationally recognized rating agency that requires information about
the Lender s investment portfolio in connection with ratings issued with
respect to the  Lender, and (g) as may otherwise be required or requested
by any regulatory authority having  jurisdiction
over the Lender or by any applicable law, rule, regulation or judicial process,
the opinion of the Lender s counsel concerning the making of such disclosure to
be binding on the parties hereto. The obligations of the Lender under this
Section shall survive payment in full of   the Obligations and the termination of the Commitments. The Lender shall
not incur any   liability to the
Borrower by reason of any disclosure permitted by this Section.   

  Section 8.8              Governing Law and Construction .
THE VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION  AND ENFORCEABILITY
OF THIS AGREEMENT AND THE NOTES SHALL BE   GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF COLORADO, WITHOUT GIVING
EFFECT TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF. Whenever possible,  each
provision of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any other
statement,  instrument or transaction
contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto shall be
interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under such applicable
law, but, if any  provision of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents
or any other statement, instrument or  

50     

transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or
relating hereto or thereto shall be held to be  prohibited or invalid under
such applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective only to the  extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without
invalidating the remainder of such provision or  the remaining provisions
of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or any other statement, instrument
or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or relating hereto or thereto.  

   Section
8.9              Consent to
Jurisdiction.  AT THE OPTION OF THE LENDER, THIS  AGREEMENT AND THE
OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS MAY BE ENFORCED IN ANY  FEDERAL
COURT SITTING IN THE CITY OR COUNTY OF DENVER; AND THE  BORROWER CONSENTS
TO THE JURISDICTION AND VENUE OF ANY SUCH COURT  AND WAIVES ANY ARGUMENT THAT VENUE IN SUCH FORUMS IS NOT   CONVENIENT. IN THE EVENT THE BORROWER COMMENCES
ANY ACTION IN  ANOTHER JURISDICTION OR VENUE UNDER ANY TORT OR CONTRACT
THEORY  ARISING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY FROM
THE RELATIONSHIP CREATED BY THIS   AGREEMENT,
THE LENDER AT ITS OPTION SHALL BE ENTITLED TO HAVE THE   CASE TRANSFERRED TO ONE OF THE JURISDICTIONS AND
VENUES  ABOVE-DESCRIBED, OR IF SUCH TRANSFER CANNOT BE ACCOMPLISHED UNDER
APPLICABLE LAW, TO HAVE SUCH CASE DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  

   Section
8.10            Waiver of Jury Trial. 
THE BORROWER AND THE LENDER  IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL
BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL  PROCEEDING ARISING OUT
OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY   OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR   THEREBY.   

  Section 8.11            Survival of Agreement.  All
representations, warranties, covenants and agreement made by the Borrower
herein or in the other Loan Documents and in the certificates or other
instruments prepared or delivered in connection with or pursuant to this
Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be deemed to have been relied upon
by the Lender and shall survive the making of the Loans by the Lender and the
execution and delivery to the Lender by the Borrower of the Notes, regardless
of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Lender,  and shall continue in full force and effect as
long as any Obligation is outstanding and unpaid  and so long as the Commitments
have not been terminated; provided, however, that the  obligations of the Borrower under Sections 8.2, 8.5 and 8.12 shall
survive payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of the
Commitments.   

  Section 8.12            Indemnification.  Borrower hereby
agrees to defend, protect, indemnify and hold harmless the Lender and its
respective Affiliates and the directors, officers, employees, attorneys and
agents of the Lender and its respective Affiliates (each of the foregoing being
an    Indemnitee   and all of the
foregoing being collectively the   Indemnitees   ) from and against any   and all claims, actions, damages, liabilities,
judgments, costs and expenses (including all   reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel which may be incurred in
the investigation or  defense of any matter) imposed upon, incurred by or
asserted against any Indemnitee, whether direct, indirect or consequential and
whether based on any federal, state, local or foreign laws or  

51     

regulations (including securities laws, environmental
laws, commercial laws and regulations),  under
common law or on equitable cause, or on contract or otherwise:   

   (a)             by reason of, relating to or in connection with the execution, delivery,
 performance or enforcement of any Loan Document, any commitments
relating thereto,  or any transaction
contemplated by any Loan Document; or   

   (b)             by reason of, relating to or in connection with any credit extended or
used  under the Loan Documents or any act done or omitted by any Person,
or the exercise of  any rights or remedies thereunder,
including the acquisition of any collateral by the  Lender by way of
foreclosure of the Lien thereon, deed or bill of sale in lieu of such  foreclosure or otherwise;   

   provided, however, that the
Borrower shall not be liable to any Indemnitee for any portion of  such
claims, damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from such Indemnitee s
gross negligence  or willful misconduct. In
the event this indemnity is unenforceable as a matter of law as to a particular
matter or consequence referred to herein, it shall be enforceable to the full
extent   permitted by law.   

   This
indemnification applies, without limitation, to any act, omission, event or  circumstance
existing or occurring on or prior to the later of the Termination Date or the
date of payment in full of the Obligations, including specifically Obligations
arising under clause (b) of  this Section.
The indemnification provisions set forth above shall be in addition to any
liability the Borrower may otherwise have. Without prejudice to the survival of
any other obligation of  the Borrower hereunder the indemnities and
obligations of the Borrower contained in this Section shall survive the payment
in full of the other Obligations.  

   Section
8.13            Captions.  The
captions or headings herein and any table of contents  hereto are for
convenience only and in no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of
any provision of this Agreement.  

   Section
8.14            Entire Agreement. 
This Agreement and the other Loan Documents  embody the entire agreement
and understanding between the Borrower and the Lender with  respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof.
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings relating to
the subject matter hereof. Nothing contained in this Agreement or   in any other Loan Document, expressed or implied,
is intended to confer upon any Persons other   than the parties hereto any rights, remedies, obligations or
liabilities hereunder or thereunder.   

   Section
8.15            Counterparts . This
Agreement may be executed in any number of  counterparts, all of which
taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any of the
parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart.  

   Section
8.16            Borrower
Acknowledgements.  The Borrower hereby acknowledges that  (a) it has
been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this
Agreement  

52     

and the other Loan Documents, (b) the Lender has no
fiduciary relationship to the Borrower, the relationship being solely that of
debtor and creditor, (c) no joint venture exists between the Borrower and the
Lender, and (d) the Lender undertakes no responsibility to the Borrower to  review or inform the Borrower of any matter in
connection with any phase of the business or  operations of the Borrower
and the Borrower shall rely entirely upon its own judgment with  respect to its business, and any review,
inspection or supervision of, or information supplied to,  the Borrower
by the Lender is for the protection of the Lender and neither the Borrower nor
any  third party is entitled to rely thereon.   

  Section 8.17           Relationship
Among Borrower.  

   (a)             Waivers of Defenses .
The obligations of the Borrower hereunder shall not be released, in whole or in
part, by any action or thing which might, but for this provision of this
Agreement, be deemed a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor,
other than irrevocable payment and performance in full of the Obligations
(except for contingent indemnity and other contingent Obligations not yet due
and payable) at a time after any obligation of the Lender hereunder to make the
Loans and to issue Letters of Credit shall have expired or been terminated and
all outstanding Letters of Credit shall have expired or the liability of the
Lender shall have otherwise been discharged. The  purpose and intent of this Agreement is that the Obligations constitute
the direct and   primary obligations of
the Borrower and that the covenants, agreements and all  obligations of
the Borrower hereunder be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable. The Borrower
shall be and remain liable for any deficiency remaining after foreclosure of
any security agreement or mortgage securing all or any part of the Obligations,
whether or not the liability of any other Person for such deficiency is
discharged pursuant to statute,  judicial
decision or otherwise.   

   (b)             Other Transactions  . The
Lender is expressly authorized to exchange,  surrender or release with or
without consideration any or all collateral and security which may at any time
be placed with it by the Borrower or by any other Person on behalf of the
Borrower, or to forward or deliver any or all such collateral and security
directly to the  Borrower for collection and
remittance or for credit. No invalidity, irregularity or  unenforceability
of any security for the Obligations or other recourse with respect thereto
shall affect, impair or be a defense to the Borrower s obligations under this
Agreement. The liabilities of the Borrower hereunder shall not be affected or
impaired by any failure,  delay, neglect or
omission on the part of the Lender to realize upon any of the  Obligations
of any other Borrower to the Lender, or upon any collateral or security for any
or all of the Obligations, nor by the taking by the Lender of (or the failure
to take) any guaranty or guaranties to secure the Obligations, nor by the
taking by the Lender of  (or the failure to
take or the failure to perfect its security interest in or other lien on)   collateral or security of any kind. No act or
omission of the Lender, whether or not such  action or failure to act
varies or increases the risk of, or affects the rights or remedies of  the Borrower, shall affect or impair the
obligations of the Borrower hereunder.   

53     

(c)             Actions Not Required .  The Borrower, to the extent permitted by  applicable law, hereby waives any and all right
to cause a marshaling of the assets or any other action by any court or other
governmental body with respect thereto or to cause the   Lender to proceed against any security for the
Obligations or any other recourse which   the Lender may have with respect thereto and further waives any and all
requirements   that the Lender institute
any action or proceeding at law or in equity, or obtain any  judgment,
against the Borrower or any other Person, or with respect to any collateral  security for the Obligations, as a condition
precedent to making demand on or bringing   an action or obtaining and/or enforcing a judgment against, the Borrower
under this   Agreement.   

   (d)            A pplication of Payments .
Any and all payments upon the Obligations made by the Borrower or by any other
Person, and/or the proceeds of any or all collateral or security for any of the
Obligations, may be applied by the Lender on such items of the Obligations as
the Lender may elect.  

   (e)             Recovery of Payment  . If
any payment received by the Lender and applied  to the Obligations is
subsequently set aside, recovered, rescinded or required to be returned for any
reason (including, without limitation, the bankruptcy, insolvency or  reorganization of the Borrower or any other
obligor), the Obligations to which such   payment was applied shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
be deemed to have   continued in
existence, notwithstanding such application, and the Borrower shall be liable   for such Obligations as fully as if such
application had never been made. References in  this Agreement to amounts
 irrevocably paid  or to  irrevocable payment  refer to  payments that cannot be set aside, recovered, rescinded or required to
be returned for any reason.   

   (f)             Limitation; Insolvency Laws .
As used in this Section 8.17(f): (a) the term    Applicable Insolvency
Laws   means the laws of the United States of America or of any State,
province, nation or other governmental unit relating to bankruptcy,
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment of debts, relief of debtors,
dissolution, insolvency, fraudulent transfers or conveyances or other similar
laws (including, without limitation, 11 U. S. C.   547,  548,  550 and other  avoidance  provisions of Title 11 of the
United States Code)  as applicable in any proceeding in which the
validity and/or enforceability of this  Agreement
against the Borrower, or any Specified Lien is in issue; and (b)  Specified   Lien  means any security interest, mortgage, lien
or encumbrance granted by the   Borrower
securing the Obligations, in whole or in part. Notwithstanding any other   provision of this Agreement, if, in any
proceeding, a court of competent jurisdiction   determines that with respect to the Borrower, this Agreement or any
Specified Lien   would, but for the
operation of this Section, be subject to avoidance and/or recovery or be  unenforceable
by reason of Applicable Insolvency Laws, this Agreement and each such  Specified Lien shall be valid and enforceable
against the Borrower, only to the maximum   extent that would not cause this Agreement or such Specified Lien to be
subject to  avoidance, recovery or unenforceability. To the extent that
any payment to, or realization  

54     

by, the Lender or the Lender on the Obligations
exceeds the limitations of this Section and is otherwise subject to avoidance
and recovery in any such proceeding, the amount  subject to avoidance shall in all events be limited to the amount by
which such actual  payment or realization exceeds such limitation, and
this Agreement as limited shall in all events remain in full force and effect
and be fully enforceable against the Borrower. This Section is intended solely
to reserve the rights of the Lender against the Borrower, in such proceeding to
the maximum extent permitted by Applicable Insolvency Laws and  neither the Borrower, any guarantor of the
Obligations nor any other Person shall have   any right, claim or defense under this Section that would not otherwise
be available under  Applicable Insolvency Laws in such proceeding.  

  Section 8.18            Interest
Rate Limitation . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any
time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges
and other amounts that are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable
law (collectively, the    Charges  ),
shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the   Maximum Rate  ) that may be  contracted
for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender in accordance with
applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder,
together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the
Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would
have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of
the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges
payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased
(but not above the  Maximum Rate therefor)
until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the   Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment,
shall have been received by such Lender.   

55  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,   the
parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be  executed as of the date first above written.  

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, 
   as Borrower   

By:  

/s/ Samuel S. M.
  Wai  

Name:  

Samuel S. M. Wai  

Title:  

TREASURER  

Address for the Borrower 
 For Purposes of Notice:   

   101
North 3rd Street 
 Moorhead, Minnesota 56560  

S-  1  

ANNEX I   

   PRICING
GRID   

Schedule 3.1(a)  

   Landlord/Bailee Locations   

   None   

Schedule 4.6   

   Litigation   

  On May 1, 2006 The
Amalgamated Sugar Company LLC ( Amalgamated ) has filed a lawsuit against the
U.S. Department of Agriculture (the  USDA ) in Federal Court in the District of
Idaho challenging the USDA s transfer of sugar marketing allocations to the
American Crystal Sugar Company ( ACSC ). The case stems from ACSC s acquisition
of assets from the Pacific  Northwest Sugar
Company ( PNSC ) in 2003, and the associated transfer of PNSC s sugar  marketing
allocations to ACSC. The case has been in various stages of administrative
hearings,  the most recent of which resulted
in the USDA s final decision to transfer the marketing  allocations to
ACSC. Amalgamated is challenging the USDA decision in Federal Court. ACSC  intends to intervene in the case and play an
active role in the litigation in order to preserve its  rights to the
marketing allocation. Based on certain assumptions, an adverse ruling in this
case  could have an adverse impact of more
than $7,500,000.00.   

Schedule 4.7   

   Environmental Matters   

   None   

Schedule 6.11  

   Existing Investments   

  Investment in CoBank, ACB  

  Investment in Marketing
Cooperatives  

  Investment
in ProGold Limited Liability Company  

  Investment in Crystech,
LLC  

  Investment in Sidney
Sugars Incorporated  

  Investment in Crab Creek
Sugar Company  

Schedule 6.12  

  Existing
Indebtedness  

Lender   

Amount   

Commercial Paper  

Variable  

Maximum Outstanding $225 million  

Minn-Dak Farmers Cooperative 
  Southern Minnesota Beet Sugar Cooperative 
  United States Sugar Corporation  

Variable  

Private
  Placement of Debt  

John Hancock
  Mutual Life Insurance Co.  

$26 million  

John Hancock
  Variable Life Insurance Co.  

$1.5 million  

Paul Revere Life
  Insurance Company  

$22.5 million  

John Hancock
  Ins. Co.  

$20 million  

Wells Fargo  

$1 million  

Commodity Credit
  Corporation  

Variable  

East Grand Forks
  Pollution Control Refunding Series A  

$3,360,000  

East Grand Forks
  Industrial Development Series B  

$560,000  

1996 Traill
  County Series A, B   C Bonds  

$18 million  

1997 City of
  Moorhead Bonds  

$5.5 million  

1998 Traill
  County Bonds  

$5.75 million  

1999 Traill
  County Bonds  

$3.58 million  

2000 City of
  East Grand Forks Bonds  

$5.75 million  

Intercompany
  Loan(s) from ACSC to Sidney Sugars  Incorporated   

$60 million  

2005 EGF
  Industrial Bonds  

$6.5 million  

2005B EGF Solid
  Waste Revenue Bonds  

$4.5 million  

Schedule 6.13  

  Existing Liens  

Asset   

Lienholder   

Sugar  

Commodity Credit Corporation  

Real Estate, Equipment, Intangibles  

CoBank as Collateral Agent  

ACSC s Equity in Crystech, LLC  

First Union Trust Company, 
  National Association, as Collateral Agent  

Pollution Control Equipment located at ACSC s
  Moorehead, MN facility  

Security Agreement 
  American National Bank and Trust Company (now known as Firstar Bank)  

Marketing Assets  

Minn-Dak Farmers Cooperative 
  Southern Minnesota Beet Sugar Cooperative 
  United States Sugar Corporation  

Fixed Assets - Collateral Pool  

Private Placement of Debt 
   John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. 
    John Hancock Variable Life
  Insurance Co. 
   Paul Revere Life Insurance Co.  

Schedule 6.14  

  Contingent
Obligations  

  Financial Guaranty on
behalf of Midwest Agri Commodities Company  

Exhibit A-l  

  Form of Revolving Note  

  Attached  

REVOLVING
NOTE   

FOR
VALUE RECEIVED, AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, a Minnesota   cooperative corporation (the   Borrower  ),
hereby promises to pay to the order of CoBANK, ACB   (the   Lender  ), in lawful money of the
United States of America in Immediately Available   Funds (as such term and each other capitalized
term used herein are defined in the Loan   Agreement hereinafter referred to), the principal amount of Three
Hundred Million and 00/100   Dollars
($300,000,000.00). or such lesser amount as has actually been advanced under
the   Revolving Loan, and interest in
like funds on the unpaid principal amount from time to time   outstanding, at the rates and times set forth in
that certain Amended and Restated Loan   Agreement
dated July 31, 2006, by and between the Borrower and the Lender, as the same
may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended renewed, restated or replaced
from time to time   (the   Loan
Agreement  ).   

   Principal
and interest shall be payable as set forth in the   Loan  
Agreement, and all   principal and
interest remaining unpaid on the Termination Date shall be immediately due and   payable.   

   This
note is one of the Notes referred to in the Loan Agreement and is subject to
and governed by the Loan   Agreement  . This maturity of this note is subject to
acceleration upon the terms provided in the Loan Agreement.   

   Should
  any   Event of Default occur as provided for in the Loan Agreement, all
principal and interest outstanding hereunder may be declared immediately due
and payable in accordance with the Loan Agreement. The Borrower and all
guarantors and endorsers, for themselves, their legal representatives,
successors and assigns, hereby severally waive presentment for payment, protest
and demand, notice of protest, demand and dishonor and nonpayment of this note,
and   consent that the holder may extend
the time of payment or otherwise modify the terms of   payment of any part or the whole of the
indebtedness evidenced by this note, and such consent shall not alter or
diminish the liability of the Borrower or said guarantors or endorsers. The
undersigned agrees to pay all costs and expenses of collection, including
reasonable attorney s   fees.   

   The
interest rate shall at no time exceed the maximum lawful rate (the   Maximum
Rate  )   that may be contracted for,
charged, taken, received or reserved in accordance with applicable   law, and the rate of interest payable hereunder   shall   be
limited to the Maximum Rate.   

   THE
VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION AND ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS NOTE   SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE
STATE OF COLORADO   WITHOUT GIVING
EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.   

THE UNDERSIGNED AND THE HOLDER (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF)
IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL   PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS NOTE
OR ANY OTHER LOAN   DOCUMENT OR THE
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.   

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY,  

a Minnesota cooperative corporation  

By  

Its  

2  

Exhibit A-2  

  Form
of Term Note T01  

  Attached  

TERM
NOTE TO1   

FOR
VALUE RECEIVED, AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, a Minnesota   cooperative corporation (the   Borrower  ),
hereby promises to pay to the order of CoBANK,   ACB (the   Lender  ), in lawful money of the United States of
America in Immediately Available   Funds
(as such term and each other capitalized term used herein are defined in the
Loan   Agreement hereinafter referred
to), the principal amount of Fifty-Eight Million Two Hundred Seventy-Six
Thousand Seven Hundred Two and 00/100 Dollars ($58,276,702.00), or such lesser   amount as has actually been advanced under the Term
Loan T01, and interest in like funds on the   unpaid principal amount hereof from time to time outstanding, at the
rates and time set forth in   that
certain Amended and Restated Loan Agreement dated July 31, 2006, by and between
the   Borrower and the Lender, as the
same may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended,   renewed, restated or replaced from time to time
(the   Loan Agreement  ),   

   Principal
and interest shall be payable as set forth in the Loan Agreement, and all   principal and interest remaining unpaid on the Term
Loan Maturity Date shall be immediately   due and payable.   

   This
note is one of the Notes referred to in the Loan Agreement and is subject to
and  governed by the Loan Agreement. This note is secured, and its
maturity is subject to  acceleration, in each
case upon the terms provided in the Loan Agreement.   

   Should
any Event of Default occur as provided for in the Loan Agreement, all principal
  and interest outstanding hereunder
may be declared immediately due and payable in accordance with the Loan
Agreement The Borrower and all guarantors and endorsers, for themselves, their   legal representatives, successors and assigns,
hereby severally waive presentment for payment,   protest and demand, notice of protest, demand and dishonor and
nonpayment of this note, and   consent
that the holder may extend the time of payment or otherwise modify the terms of
  payment of any part or the whole of
the indebtedness evidenced by this note, and such consent   shall not alter or diminish the liability of the
Borrower or said guarantors or endorsers. The   undersigned agrees to pay all costs and expenses of collection, including
reasonable attorney s   fees.   

   The
interest rate shall at no time exceed the maximum lawful rate (the   Maximum
Rate  )   that may be contracted for,
charged, taken, received or reserved in accordance with applicable   law, and the rate of interest payable hereunder
shall be limited to the Maximum Rate.   

   THE
VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION AND ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS NOTE   SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE
STATE OF COLORADO   WITHOUT GIVING
EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.   

THE UNDERSIGNED AND THE HOLDER (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF)
IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL   PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS NOTE
OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.   

AMERICAN
  CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, 
     a Minnesota cooperative
  corporation   

By  

Its  

2  

Exhibit A-3  

  Form of Term Note T01NP  

  Attached  

TERM NOTE T01NP   

FOR
VALUE RECEIVED, AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, a Minnesota   cooperative corporation (the   Borrower  ),
hereby promises to pay to the order of CoBANK,   ACB (the   Lender  ), in lawful money of the United States of
America in Immediately Available   Funds
(as such term and each other capitalized term used herein are defined in the
Loan   Agreement hereinafter referred
to), the principal amount of Twenty-Five Million One Hundred Six Thousand Six
Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($25,106,600.00), or such lesser amount as has   actually been advanced under the Term Loan T01NP,
and interest in like funds on the unpaid   principal amount hereof from time to time outstanding, at the rates and
time set forth in that   certain Amended
and Restated Loan Agreement dated July 31, 2006, by and between the   Borrower and the Lender, as the same may be
amended, modified, supplemented, extended,   renewed, restated or replaced from time to time (the   Loan Agreement  ).   

   Principal
and interest shall be payable as set forth in the Loan Agreement, and all   principal and interest remaining unpaid on the Term
Loan Maturity Date shall be immediately   due and payable.   

   This
note is one of the Notes referred to in the Loan Agreement and is subject to
and  governed by the Loan Agreement. This note is secured, and its
maturity is subject to  acceleration, in each
case upon the terms provided in the Loan Agreement.   

   Should
any Event of Default occur as provided for in the Loan Agreement, all principal
  and interest outstanding hereunder
may be declared immediately due and payable in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. The Borrower and all guarantors and endorsers, for themselves, their
legal representatives, successors and assigns, hereby severally waive
presentment for payment, protest and demand, notice of protest, demand and
dishonor and nonpayment of this note, and   consent that the holder may extend the time of payment or otherwise
modify the terms of   payment of any
part or the whole of the indebtedness evidenced by this note, and such consent   shall not alter or diminish the liability of the
Borrower or said guarantors or endorsers. The   undersigned agrees to pay all costs and expenses of collection, including
reasonable attorney s   fees.   

   The
interest rate shall at no time exceed the maximum lawful rate (the   Maximum
Rate  )   that may be contracted for,
charged, taken, received or reserved in accordance with applicable   law, and the rate of interest payable hereunder
shall be limited to the Maximum Rate.   

   THE
VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION AND ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS NOTE   SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE
STATE OF COLORADO   WITHOUT GIVING
EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.   

THE UNDERSIGNED AND THE HOLDER (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF)
IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL   PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS NOTE
OR ANY OTHER LOAN   DOCUMENT OR THE
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.   

AMERICAN
  CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, 
     a Minnesota cooperative
  corporation  

By  

Its  

2  

Exhibit A-4  

  Form of Term Note T06  

  Attached  

TERM NOTE T06   

FOR
VALUE RECEIVED, AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, a Minnesota   cooperative corporation (the   Borrower   ),
hereby promises to pay to the order of Co BANK,   ACB (the   Lender  ) in lawful money of the United States of
America in Immediately Available   Funds
(as such term and each other capitalized term used herein are defined in the
Loan   Agreement hereinafter referred
to), the principal amount of Eighty-Five Million and 00/100   Dollars ($85,000,000.00), or such lesser amount as
has actually been advanced under the Term   Loan T06, and interest in like funds on the unpaid principal amount
hereof from time to time   outstanding,
at the rates and time set forth in that certain Amended and Restated Loan   Agreement dated July 31, 2006, by and between the
Borrower and the Lender, as the same may   be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or
replaced from time to time (the   Loan Agreement  ).   

   Principal
and interest shall be payable as set forth in the Loan Agreement, and all   principal and interest remaining unpaid on the Term
Loan Maturity Date shall be immediately   due and payable.   

   This
note is one of the Notes referred to in the Loan Agreement and is subject to
and  governed by the Loan Agreement. This note is secured, and its
maturity is subject to  acceleration, in each
case upon the terms provided in the Loan Agreement.   

   Should
any Event of Default occur as provided for in the Loan Agreement, all principal
  and interest outstanding hereunder
may be declared immediately due and payable in accordance with the Loan
Agreement The Borrower and all guarantors and endorsers, for themselves, their
legal representatives, successors and assigns, hereby severally waive
presentment for payment, protest and demand, notice of protest, demand and
dishonor and nonpayment of this note, and   consent that the holder may extend the time of payment or otherwise
modify the terms of   payment of any
part or the whole of the indebtedness evidenced by this note, and such consent   shall not alter or diminish the liability of the
Borrower or said guarantors or endorsers. The   undersigned agrees to pay all costs and expenses of collection, including
reasonable attorney s  fees.  

   The
interest rate shall at no time exceed the maximum lawful rate (the   Maximum
Rate  )   that may be contracted for,
charged, taken, received or reserved in accordance with applicable   law, and the rate of interest payable hereunder
shall be limited to the Maximum Rate.   

  THE VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION
AND ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS NOTE  SHALL BE
GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF COLORADO   WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS
PRINCIPLES THEREOF.   

THE UNDERSIGNED AND THE HOLDER (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF)
IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL   PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS NOTE
OR ANY OTHER LOAN   DOCUMENT OR THE
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.   

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY,   
     a Minnesota cooperative corporation 

By  

Its  

2  

Exhibit B  

  Borrowing
Base Formula  

  The Borrowing Base shall be
determined and computed by calculating the sum of:  

  80% of Eligible Accounts
Receivable; plus  

  75% of Eligible Net Inventory.  

   The Borrowing Base shall at no
time exceed all  Short-Term Loans  owing by Borrower,   Short-Term Loans 
is defined as the sum of the Revolving Loan, outstanding Commodity  Credit Corporation loans, and all outstanding
commercial paper.   

Exhibit C  

  Form
of Borrowing Base Certificate  

  Attached  

Monthly Borrowing Base   

  For the month ended                                

Eligible Accounts
  Receivables 

$  

@ 80%  

$  

(a)  

Eligible Accounts Receivables are defined as those of the Company and
all Subsidiaries which: (1) arise from the sale and delivery of inventory on
ordinary trade terms; (2) are evidenced by an invoice; (3) are net of any
credit, trade or other allowance given to the account debtor; (4) are not owing
by an account debtor who has become insolvent or is the subject of any
bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation or like proceeding; (5) are not subject
to any offset or deduction; (6) are not owing by an affiliate of Company;  (7)
are not owing by an obligor located outside of the U.S. unless the receivable
is supported by a letter of  credit issued by
a bank acceptable to the CoBank; and (8) are not government receivables. The
above  provisions notwithstanding, Trade Receivables shall also exclude
(i) any accounts that are past due more than 90 days, and (ii) any contra
account regardless of the date;  

Inventory 

$  

(b)  

Inventory as
determined on the basis of Net Realizable Value, defined as the expected
selling price of an inventory item less expected costs to complete and dispose,
as determined in accordance with GAAP.  

Crop Payments due
  Non-members and members 

$  

(c)  

Net Inventory Value (b-c)  

$  

@ 75%  

$                           (d)  

Borrowing Base (a+d) 
  $  

Commercial Paper 
   $                              (e)   

Statused Revolving Term   RJ0013T07 
   $                              (f)   

Commodity Credit Corp. loans 
                                 (g)   

Total Short-term Loans (e+f+g)  

$  

Exhibit D  

  Form of Compliance Certificate  

  Attached  

CoBANK, ACB   

   COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE   CERTIFIED INTERIM FINANCIALS   

   This certificate is being furnished to CoBANK, ACB (  CoBank  )
to induce CoBank to make and/or continue to make advances to the Company and to
comply with and demonstrate compliance with the terms, covenants, and
conditions of the Company s Amended and Restated Loan Agreement ( Loan
Agreement ) and all   Promissory Note
thereto. The undersigned hereby certifies that: (i) this certificate was
prepared from the books and   records
of the Company, is in agreement with them, and is correct to the best of the
undersigned s knowledge and   belief;
(ii) no  Event of Default       (as defined in the Loan Agreement) or event
which, with the giving of notice   and/or
the passage of time and/or the occurrence of any other condition, would ripen
into an Event of Default (a   Potential Default  ) shall have occurred and
be continuing, except as disclosed below; and (iii) based upon the    undersigned s review of the attached interim
financial statement(s) dated as of                                       , to the    best
of the undersigned s knowledge, the attached financial statement(s) are
accurate and complete for the period   reflected.  

   This certificate is attached to and made a part of the   Company      s   interim
financial statements for the   reporting
period ending                                                         .  

Required   

Actual   

Net Working Capital    
    1.   Current Assets as measured in
  accordance with GAAP  
    2.   Current Liabilities asmeasured in accordance with GAAP  
    3.    Net Working Capital (1. minus 2.)   

Minimum Net Working Capital required   for fiscal quarters other than fiscal year end-$l5,000,000  
       
    Minimum Net Working Capital required   for fiscal year
  end-$35,000,000  

l.                   
    2.                     
    3.                    

Interest Coverage Ratio    
    1.   Average
  Net Funds Generated which is the sum of the following for the most recent 12
  Fiscal Quarters divided by 4.  
             Add; Unit Retains; Depreciation
  and amortization; Net  income from
  non-member business and Member business tax timing differences; Decrease in
  Investments in other cooperative (excluding subsidiaries); and Net revenue
  from sale of stock,   
             Minus: Increase in investments in
  other cooperatives  (excluding
  subsidiaries); Net loss from non-member  business and member business
  tax timing difference; Provision for income tax; and Members  investment  retirements.   
    2.   Average
  Interest Expense defined as the total interest expense of the Company and its
  Subsidiaries (Including, without limitation, interest expense on capital
  leases) and   fees and other charges payable
  with respect to all Debt, all    determined
  on a consolidated basis in
  accordance with   GAAP for the most recent 12-Fiscal
  Quarters divided by 4.  
    3.     Interest Coverage
  Ratio (Sum of 1. and 2., divided by 2.)  

Maintain at all times, and measured as of the end of
  each Fiscal Quarter, a   minimum ratio of Average Net
  Funds   Generated plus Average Interest Expense to
  Average Interest Expense of at least   2.5; 1.0.  

l.                   
    2.                     
    3.                    

Required   

Actual   

4.    Long Term Debt to Capitalization    
    1.    Long Term Debt (excluding current maturities)
  calculated   in accordance with GAAP   
    2.    The sum of Long Term Debt plus Equity as
  determined in   accordance with GAAP   
    3.    Long Term Debt to Capitalization   
    (1.divided by 2.)  
       
     Note: For purposes of this calculation the long term debt
  and equity associated with the consolidation of Pro Gold LLC are to  be
  excluded.   

Maintain at all times and measured as of   the end of each Fiscal Quarter the ratio   of
  Long Term Debt divided by the sum   of Long
  Term Debt plus Equity of no greater than fifty-five percent (55%).  

1.                    
    2.                     
    3.                    

Leverage Ratio (      and
        Term Performance Pricing)    
    1.    Long Term Debt (excluding current maturities)
  calculated in accordance with GAAP     
    2.    Plus or minus the difference between actual
  working capital and $35,000,000    
    3.    Total members Investments    
    4.    Estimated unit retains    
    5.   Leverage
  Ratio (The sum of 1. plus or minus 2. divided by  the sum of 3. plus 4.)   

Maintain a leverage ratio of not more   than 1.50:1.0.  

l.                   
    2.                     
    3.                    
    4.                     
    5.                    
     Based upon the previous fiscal     quarter s Leverage
  Ratio, the Company is entitled to the following change in the LIBOR  and TREASURY Margins:    

The above calculations and ratios are to be determined on a consolidated
basis in accordance with the Loan   Agreement
(which excludes the financial results of ProGold and Crystech from such
calculations and ratios).   

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY 
   ( Company )   

Authorized Signature  

Titles  

Date  

Exhibit E  

  Form of Bid Request  

  Attached  

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY   

   REQUEST for BID LOAN   

  Date                             

  To:                                  CoBank, ACB 
  Attention: Syndications (Marshall
Allen) 
  Fax: 303-740-4021  

  From:
                   American Crystal Sugar Company ( Borrower )  

  Re:                                   Bid request for Revolving Loan Advance  

Date
  of Borrowing  

Aggregate
  Principal Amount of Borrowing  

Principal Amount* 

Maturity Date*   

* Borrower reserves the right to
reduce or apportion this amount during the Bid selection process.  

  * May not extend beyond 8/1/2008
maturity date  

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY  

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

Acknowledgement:  

  BID RATE
CONFIRMATION  

   Borrower accepts offer of bid rate loan under the
following terms:   

Interest
  Period  

Amount  

Interest
  Rate  

By: 

FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND
RESTATED LOAN AGREEMENT   

   between   

   AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY,   

   as Borrower,   

   and   

   CoBANK, ACB,   

   as Lender,   

   dated
July 31, 2006   

   THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED LOAN
AGREEMENT   (this  First Amendment ) is dated to be effective
as of August 31, 2006, and is by and between AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, a
Minnesota cooperative corporation ( Borrower ), and CoBANK, ACB ( Lender ), and
amends that certain Amended and Restated Loan Agreement dated July 31, 2006, as
amended from time to time (the  Loan Agreement ). All capitalized terms not
defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement. 

   RECITALS   

  The
parties have agreed to modify certain terms and provisions of the Loan
Agreement as more fully set forth in this First Amendment.  

   NOW, THEREFORE  , in consideration
of the foregoing and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by each party, the parties agree
to amend the Loan Agreement in the following respects: 

  1.              Defined Terms . The following
terms set forth in  Section 1.1  of the Loan Agreement shall be amended
and restated in their entirety as follows:  

    Quoted Rate Offer  :
A quote of a fixed interest rate per annum for minimum periods of one (1) day provided
to Borrower by the Lender in its sole discretion following the receipt by the
Lender of a Quoted Rate Request from Borrower.  

    Term Letter of Credit
Commitment Amount  : Thirty-Five Million Dollars ($35,000,000).  

  2.             Section 2.7(b) of the Loan Agreement
( Repayment; Term Loan T01 ), shall be amended and restated to read in
full as follows:  

  (b)  Term Loan T01 .
The principal of Term Loan T01 shall be payable in one annual installment in
the amount of $9,569,300 on December 31, 2006, and in three annual installments
in the amount of $9,400,000 due on December 31 of each year beginning December
31, 2008, and any amount of principal or interest remaining unpaid with respect
to Term Loan T01 on the Term Loan Maturity Date shall be immediately due and
payable on such date.  

3.             Section 2.7(c) of the Loan
Agreement ( Repayment; Term Loan T01NP ), shall be amended and restated to
read in full as follows:  

  (c)  Term Loan T01NP .
The principal of Term Loan T01NP shall be payable in one annual installment in
the amount of $7,430,700 on December 31, 2006, and in three annual installments
in the amount of $7,600,000 due on December 31 of each year beginning December
31, 2008, and any amount of principal or interest remaining unpaid with respect
to Term Loan T01NP on the Term Loan Maturity Date shall be immediately due and
payable on such date.  

  4.  Representations
and Warranties . Borrower restates, represents and warrants the representations
and warranties set forth in  Article IV  of the Loan Agreement as of the
date of this First Amendment.  

  5.  Incorporation
of Loan Agreement . This First Amendment shall be an integral part of the
Loan Agreement, and all terms of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated in
this First Amendment by reference, and all terms of this First Amendment are
hereby incorporated into the Loan Agreement as if made an original part
thereof.  Except as modified herein, all
terms and provisions of the Loan Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect, but to the extent the terms of this First Amendment conflict with the
Loan Agreement, the terms of this First Amendment shall control.  

  IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this First Amendment to be effective
as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR COMPANY, 
  a Minnesota cooperative corporation 

By  

/s/ Samuel S. M.
  Wai  

Name  

Samuel S. M. Wai  

Title  

Treasurer  

CoBANK, ACB  

By  

/s/ Teresa C.
  Fountain  

Name  

Teresa C.
  Fountain  

Title  

Assistant
  Corporate Secretary  

2  

</EX-10.24>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 a06-24441_1ex21d1.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21.1   

  List of
Subsidiaries of the Company:  

Name of Entity 

State of Incorporation   

United Sugars Corporation  

Minnesota  

Midwest Agri-Commodities Company  

Minnesota  

ProGold Limited Liability Company  

Minnesota  

Crystech, LLC  

Delaware  

Sidney Sugars Incorporated  

Minnesota  

Crab Creek Sugar Company  

Minnesota  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-24441_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

  I, James J. Horvath,
President and Chief Executive Officer of American Crystal Sugar Company,
certify that:  

  1.                                          I have reviewed this annual report on Form
10-K of American Crystal Sugar Company (the registrant); 

  2.                                          Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report; 

  3.                                          Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this annual report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this annual report; 

  4.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15e and 15d-15e) for the
registrant and we have: 

  a)                                         designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
annual report is being prepared; 

  b)                                        evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this annual report; and 

  c)                                         disclosed in this annual report any changes
in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting. 

  5.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors: 

  a)                                         all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in the design or operation of the internal controls over financial reporting
which are likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

  b)                                        any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

November  29, 2006  

/s/ JAMES J. HORVATH  

James J. Horvath  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 a06-24441_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT 31.2   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

  I, Joseph J. Talley, Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer
of American Crystal Sugar Company, certify that:  

  1.                                          I have reviewed this annual report on Form
10-K of American Crystal Sugar Company (the registrant); 

  2.                                          Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report; 

  3.                                          Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this annual report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this annual report; 

  4.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15e and 15d-15e) for the
registrant and we have: 

  a)                                         designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared; 

  b)                                        evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this annual report; and 

  c)                                         disclosed in this annual report any changes
in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting. 

  5.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors: 

  a)                                         all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of the internal controls over financial
reporting which are likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

  b)                                        any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

November  29, 2006  

/s/ JOSEPH J. TALLEY  

Joseph J. Talley  

Vice President-Finance
  and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 a06-24441_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit
32.1   

   CERTIFICATE PURSUANT TO SECTION 906   

   OF
SARBANES   OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  The undersigned, James
J. Horvath, Chief Executive Officer and President of American Crystal Sugar
Company, (the  Company ), does hereby certify that to his knowledge:  

   1.              The
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006
(the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and  

  2.              Information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operation of the Company. 

  The foregoing
certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.  

  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has caused this instrument to be executed this 29  th   day of November, 2006.  

By:  

/s/ James J. Horvath  

Name: James J. Horvath  

Title: President and Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and
will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 a06-24441_1ex32d2.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit
32.2   

   CERTIFICATE PURSUANT TO SECTION 906   

   OF
SARBANES   OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  The undersigned, Joseph
J. Talley Chief Financial Officer of American Crystal Sugar Company, (the  Company ),
does hereby certify that to his knowledge:  

   1.              The
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006
(the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and  

  2.              Information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operation of the Company. 

  The foregoing
certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.  

  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has caused this instrument to be executed this 29  th   day of November, 2006.  

By:  

/s/ Joseph J. Talley  

Name:  Joseph
  J. Talley  

Title:  Chief
  Financial Officer  

A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and
will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

