<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061201_10-K_edgar_data_3370_0000893220-06-002565_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1921873</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>349228</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1136344</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>92</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000893220-06-002565.hdr.sgml : 20061201
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061201153733
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000893220-06-002565
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061201
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061201

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			IKON OFFICE SOLUTIONS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000003370
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WHOLESALE-COMPUTER & PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE [5045]
		IRS NUMBER:				230334400
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OH
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05964
		FILM NUMBER:		061251190

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 834
		CITY:			VALLEY FORGE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19482
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6102968000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 834
		CITY:			VALLEY FORGE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19482

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALCO STANDARD CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALCO CHEMICAL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19680218

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Iwhe7Bl8/xjz4Gyagla2bfPuJlYNdqgLGQz+Xf1CQWju5K3AsgSk0Y6JjZnkoaCp
 cXNiHPLJmllb+Es5yte+sg==

 0000893220-06-002565.txt : 20061201

10-K
 1
 w26203e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K IKON OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC.

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number 1-5964 

IKON OFFICE SOLUTIONS,
    INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

OHIO  

23-0334400  

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

70 Valley Stream Parkway 
    Malvern, Pennsylvania 
        (Address of principal
    executive offices)  

19355 
        (Zip
    Code)   

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(610) 296-8000  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, no par value 
    (with Preferred Share Purchase Rights)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No
     o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of
    1934.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer         Accelerated
    filer  o      Non-accelerated
    filer  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act).   o

The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 31, 2006 was
    approximately $1,868,781,751 based upon the closing sales price
    on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape of $14.25 per
    common share. For purposes of the foregoing sentence only, all
    directors and executive officers of the registrant were assumed
    to be affiliates.

The number of shares of common stock, no par value, of the
    registrant outstanding as of November 29, 2006 was
    127,137,531.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Part III   Portions of the Registrant s
    Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

INDEX  

Page No. 

PART I   

ITEM 1.  

BUSINESS  

4

ITEM 1A.  

RISK
    FACTORS  

10

ITEM 1B.  

UNRESOLVED STAFF
    COMMENTS  

14

ITEM 2.  

PROPERTIES  

14

ITEM 3.  

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

14

ITEM 4.  

SUBMISSION OF
    MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

14

ITEM 4A.  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
    OF THE REGISTRANT  

14

PART II   

ITEM 5.  

MARKET FOR
    REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
    ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

16

ITEM 6.  

SELECTED FINANCIAL
    DATA  

17

ITEM 7.  

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

19

ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND
    QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

41

ITEM 8.  

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

43

ITEM 9.  

CHANGES IN AND
    DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
    DISCLOSURE  

88

ITEM 9A.  

CONTROLS AND
    PROCEDURES  

88

ITEM 9B.  

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

90

PART III   

ITEM 10.  

DIRECTORS AND
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

90

ITEM 11.  

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

90

ITEM 12.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP
    OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
    STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

90

ITEM 13.  

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

91

ITEM 14.  

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  

91

PART IV   

ITEM 15.  

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

91

Senior Executive Employment Agreement for Michael Kohlsdorf    
     Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    
     Subsidiaries of IKON    
     Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    
     Certification of Principal Executive Officer    
     Certification of Principal Financial Officer    
     Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350    
     Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350    

All dollar and share amounts are in thousands, except per share
    data or as otherwise noted.

2

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS  

IKON Office Solutions, Inc. ( we,   us, 
     our,   IKON  or the  Company )
    may from time to time provide information, whether verbally or
    in writing, including certain statements included in or
    incorporated by reference in this
     Form 10-K, 
    which constitutes  forward-looking  statements within
    the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not
    limited to, statements regarding the following: our ability to
    finance current operations and execute on our strategic
    priorities, including growth objectives, improved operational
    efficiency and balanced capital strategy; earnings, revenue,
    cash flow, margins and results from continuing operations; our
    ability to repay debt; our ability to remediate our material
    weakness in billing and achieve effective internal control over
    financial reporting; the development and expansion of our
    strategic alliances and partnerships; the conversion to a common
    enterprise resource planning system ( One Platform ),
    based on the Oracle
     E-Business 
    Suite, in our North American and European markets (the  One
    Platform Conversion  anticipated growth rates in the
    digital monochrome and color equipment and IKON Enterprise
    Services businesses; the effect of foreign currency exchange
    risk; and the anticipated benefits of operational synergies
    related to business division integration initiatives. Although
    we believe the expectations contained in such forward-looking
    statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such
    expectations will prove correct.

The words  anticipate,   believe, 
     estimate,   expect,   intend, 
     may,   might,   plan, 
     potential,   predict,   will, 
     should  and similar expressions, as they relate to
    us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such
    statements reflect our management s current views of IKON
    with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks,
    uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks
    or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions
    prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those
    described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected,
    intended or planned. We will not update these forward-looking
    statements, even though our situation may change in the future.
    Whether actual results will conform with our expectations and
    predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties,
    including, but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating
    to:

conducting operations in a competitive environment and a
    changing industry;

existing or future supplier relationships;

our relationship with General Electric Capital Corporation
    ( GE 

our One Platform Conversion and our infrastructure and
    productivity initiatives;

our ability to remediate our material weakness in billing and
    achieve effective internal control over financial reporting;

our ability to improve operational efficiency;

new technologies;

our ability to finance current operations and growth
    initiatives; and

economic, legal and political issues associated with our
    international operations.

3

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

We deliver integrated document management systems and solutions,
    enabling customers to improve document workflow and increase
    efficiency. We are the world s largest independent channel
    for copier, printer and multifunction product technologies,
    integrating
     best-in-class 
    systems from leading manufacturers, such as Canon, Ricoh, Konica
    Minolta, EFI and HP, and document management software from
    companies such as Captaris, eCopy, Kofax and others, to deliver
    tailored, high-value solutions implemented and supported by our
    services organization   IKON Enterprise Services. We
    offer financing in North America through a program agreement
    (the  U.S. Program Agreement ) with GE, and a
    rider to the U.S. Program Agreement (the  Canadian
    Rider ) with GE in Canada. Financing is offered to our
    customers in Germany through a five-year lease program (the
     German Program Agreement ) with GE in Germany, in the
    United Kingdom ( U.K. ) through our captive finance
    subsidiaries and for other European countries through third
    party leasing companies. We represent one of the industry s
    broadest portfolios of document management services, including
    professional services, a unique blend of
     on-site  and
    off-site managed services, customized workflow solutions and
    comprehensive support through our services force of over 15,000
    employees, including our team of over 6,000 customer service
    technicians and support resources. We have over 400 locations
    throughout North America and Western Europe. References herein
    to  we,   us,   our, 
     IKON  or the  Company  refer to IKON Office
    Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context
    specifically requires otherwise.

We primarily distribute equipment made by Canon, Ricoh, Konica
    Minolta, EFI and HP. We do not enter into long-term supply
    contracts with our suppliers and we have no current plans to do
    so in the future. Our customers primarily include large and
    small businesses, professional firms and state, local and
    federal governmental agencies.

In fiscal 2006, we generated $4.2 billion in revenues and
    our income from continuing operations was $106.2 million,
    or $0.80 per diluted common share (see Item 7,
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations ).

Strategy
    Overview  

IKON s objective is to become the strongest independent
    distribution channel in the document management industry. We
    intend to continue to execute on the following key strategic
    priorities in order to leverage our strengths and position
    ourselves for long-term growth and success:

Core Growth.   Our growth initiatives are
    centered on expansion in our mid-market and National Account
    customer segments, IKON Enterprise Services and our European
    geographic presence. Within our core markets, we are targeting
    the mid-market to leverage the scope and reach of our sales and
    service capabilities across North America and Western Europe.
    This target market accounts for a meaningful portion of our
    revenue and remains an essential part of our business.

Our National Accounts program, which includes Fortune 500 and
    other large global and private companies, is a key growth area
    for us and we have a dedicated team focused on these accounts.
    Our customers in this market represent a wide range of
    industries, including healthcare, financial services, retail and
    manufacturing.

Within IKON Enterprise Services, we seek to ensure that our
    products and services portfolio is customer-focused,
    services-centric and flexible. Our services offerings include
    Customer Services, Professional Services and
     On-site  and
    Off-site Managed Services. We will continue to lead with
    document strategy assessments, and leverage the strength of our
    combined services offerings to cross-sell in existing accounts
    and add new customers. With our portfolio of document management
    solutions, IKON Enterprise Services delivers document management
    solutions that address specific document challenges across all
    stages of the document lifecycle   from input to
    management, output and archive.

Operational Leverage.  W e are focused on
    reducing our cost structure and gaining efficiencies across our
    operations to improve profitability and increase our
    competitiveness. Our initiatives include our One Platform

4

Table of Contents   

Conversion, improving our processes and operations, simplifying
    our business by eliminating unprofitable and non-strategic
    businesses and reducing expenses across the Company.

Another element of operational leverage is organizational
    development. We will continue to invest in development
    opportunities across the Company and strive to achieve best
    practices in organizational vitality, diversity, sales force
    engagement and new leader assimilation.

Balanced Capital Strategy.   Over the last
    several years, we have focused on our implementation of a
    balanced capital strategy focused on maximizing cash flow,
    reducing corporate debt and outstanding shares of our common
    stock, and returning shareholder value. We have reduced
    corporate debt (which does not include debt attributable to our
    finance business) from $804,880 at September 30, 2004 to
    $595,065 at September 30, 2006. Since fiscal 2004, we have
    repurchased 25,855 shares of our common stock for $295,047
    (plus related fees). The sales of our North American lease
    portfolios in March 2004 and April 2006, as well as our German
    lease portfolio in June 2006, generated a significant amount of
    cash and enabled us to reduce the financing risk inherent in a
    captive leasing business. We are focused on cash generation
    through reductions in our working capital, in particular the
    reduction of our accounts receivable balance, through
    improvement in collections and our billing processes and
    increasing the efficiency of our processing of sales
    transactions with GE. We believe these working capital
    improvements, combined with growth in our targeted revenue
    streams and reductions in administrative costs, will be
    catalysts for future cash flow generation.

General
    Business Developments  

We were incorporated in Ohio in 1952 and are the successor to a
    business incorporated in 1928. From 1994 through 1998, we
    aggressively acquired businesses, including those that provided
    traditional office equipment products and services, outsourcing
    and imaging services, and technology products and services.
    Beginning in fiscal 1999, we ceased our acquisition activity in
    North America and began to focus on developing and executing
    strategies to integrate the acquired companies and organize the
    Company into a more efficient and cohesive operating structure.
    During fiscal 1999, we conducted a broad-based review of our
    business in an effort to improve our cost-competitiveness and
    productivity. The focus of this effort was not only to identify
    cost-cutting initiatives, but also to identify areas of
    opportunity in which to gain efficiencies and to invest the
    resulting savings in areas that are critical to our long-term
    success and that would increase productivity. Accordingly,
    during the past several years we have changed our business in
    the following major areas:

Business Division Integration.   Beginning
    in fiscal 1999, we created our reporting units, IKON North
    America ( INA ) and IKON Europe ( IE ), by
    integrating our Business Services, Managed Services and captive
    finance subsidiaries. Our Business Service offerings include
    traditional copiers, printers, multifunctional product
    ( MFP ) technologies and other office equipment and
    services. Managed Services includes the management of our
    customers  mailrooms, copy centers and general
    administrative facilities, as well as off-site managed services
    through Legal Document Services (see    Product
    and Services Offerings ). During the past several years, we
    have focused on developing and growing INA and IE by enhancing
    our growth platforms and de-emphasizing the sale of lower-margin
    technology services, hardware and software in North America and
    Europe. Through our captive finance subsidiaries, we arranged
    lease financing primarily for equipment marketed by us. In
    fiscal 2004, we entered into the U.S. Program Agreement and
    the Canadian Rider to enable GE to provide lease financing for
    equipment marketed by us in the U.S. and Canada, including
    copiers, fax machines and related accessories and peripheral
    equipment, the majority of which are manufactured by Canon and
    Ricoh. In addition, in fiscal 2005, we announced the
    consolidation of our three U.S. regions into two regions in
    order to continue to centralize and streamline our operational
    structure. In fiscal 2006, we entered into the German Program
    Agreement designating GE as our preferred lease financing source
    in Germany.

Operations Integration and Enhancements.   As we
    have integrated our business divisions over the past several
    years, we have taken actions to centralize and consolidate a
    variety of operational functions, including:
    (i) integrating and consolidating our financial and
    accounting functions into shared service centers;
    (ii) establishing customer care centers; and
    (iii) developing a national supply chain organization to
    leverage our buying power with suppliers and streamline our
    distribution and inventory management processes. We have
    aligned

5

Table of Contents   

the service and sales functions of our marketplace activities
    and have implemented a sales coverage model to align our sales
    professionals with the right opportunities to effectively manage
    their territories (see    Efficiency
    Initiatives ).

Product Transition.   Virtually all of the new
    office equipment we distribute represents digital technology (as
    compared to analog), which has the ability to communicate across
    a network, enabling work to be performed collaboratively and
    eliminating the distinction between traditional copiers, fax
    equipment and printers. We have continued to focus on the
    distribution of color products and digital multifunction office
    equipment that enable our customers to print, copy, scan and fax
    from one device. We believe that the office equipment market
    will continue to change with the increasing acceptance of black
    and white multifunction and color technology and that the
    manufacturers of the products we distribute will continue to
    focus on developing and manufacturing these products. The
    evolution of digital technology has allowed our suppliers to
    develop high-end segment 5 and 6 equipment (equipment with
    output speeds in excess of 69 pages per minute) and color
    products. We have pursued opportunities to market these high-end
    products. During fiscal 2006, sales of high-end equipment and
    color products represented approximately 46% of our equipment
    revenues in the U.S.

Equipment Financing.   During fiscal 2004, we
    sold certain of our assets, including facilities, systems and
    processes relating to our U.S. and Canadian leasing operations,
    to GE and designated GE as our preferred lease financing source
    in the U.S. and Canada. Prior to our arrangement with GE, a
    significant portion of our profits were derived from our leasing
    operations in the U.S. and Canada. Pursuant to the agreements
    governing our relationship with GE, we are entitled to receive
    origination and certain other fees and income from sharing of
    gains on certain lease-end activities with respect to future
    leases funded by GE. Our right to receive a portion of these
    fees, namely the fees for providing preferred services for lease
    generation in the U.S., which have to date amounted to
    approximately $50,000 annually, will end as of March 31,
    2009, which is the end of the initial five-year term of our
    U.S. Program Agreement. During fiscal 2006, we sold German
    lease receivables and entered into the German Program Agreement
    with GE in Germany. Either party may terminate the German
    Program Agreement on March 31, 2009 if the
    U.S. Program Agreement is not renewed beyond such date.

Segments  

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
    Related Information  ( SFAS 131 ) requires
    segment data to be measured and analyzed on a basis that is
    consistent with how business activities are reported internally
    to management.

Revenue and profit information about our reportable segments in
    accordance with SFAS 131 is presented in Note 17 to
    the consolidated financial statements appearing under
    Item 8 of this report. Additional financial data and
    commentary on financial results for our segments is provided in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations appearing under Item 7 of this
    report.

INA and IE provide copiers, printers, MFP technologies, color
    solutions and a variety of document management service
    capabilities through IKON Enterprise Services.

Sales and
    Services Organizations  

Our sales and services organizations are aligned geographically,
    with support functions centralized at the headquarters or
    operations level. Our sales coverage model is intended to align
    our sales professionals with customer opportunities for our
    product and services offerings. Our primary sales model uses a
    tiered approach for deploying sales teams and assigns coverage
    for each geographic territory and for specific major and
    National Accounts. Our sales professionals are supported by
    specialists in color, high volume, outsourcing and technology
    applications. This coverage model complements our sales
    compensation plans, which provides incentives to help ensure
    that efforts in the field are aligned with our strategic goals.

We have a services force of over 15,000 employees, including
    over 6,000 customer service technicians and support resources.
    Our service force is continually trained on our new products
    through our suppliers and our learning organization, IKON
    University. We are able to provide a consistent level of service
    in the countries in

6

Table of Contents   

which we do business because members of our service force cover
    both metropolitan and rural areas and we generally do not rely
    on independent local dealers for service. Our services force
    also includes our
     On-site  and
    Off-site Managed Services personnel, who provide customers with
    copy and mail room management services, as well as document
    production services. We also have a team of Professional
    Services analysts who provide guidance on optimizing document
    workflow and systems analysis and integration.

Product
    and Services Offerings  

We integrate products and services to manage document workflow
    and increase productivity and efficiency for our customers.

Our current products and services portfolio includes:

Digital Copying and Printing.   Sales,
    integration, and support of digital copiers, MFPs, printers and
    print controllers for network and production copying and
    printing, including products from suppliers such as Canon,
    Ricoh, Konica Minolta, EFI and HP.

Enterprise Services.   Sales, integration and
    support of our customizable products and services portfolio for
    every phase of the document lifecycle (i.e., document capture,
    workflow, output and retention phases) to enhance the ability of
    customers to achieve greater cost savings, increased efficiency
    and integrated document management capabilities by leveraging
    the services offered through Professional Services, Managed
    Services and Customer Services.

Professional Services.   Document strategy
    assessments to examine critical documents and workflow, and
    suggest improved methods of managing document capture, workflow
    and output to increase efficiency and productivity. Professional
    Services also includes the installation, configuration and
    connectivity of digital network devices and document management
    software and solutions, as well as end user training,
    application customization and help desk services.

Managed Services.   Includes
     On-site 
    Managed Services, as well as Off-site Managed Services through
    Legal Document Services.

On-site 
    Managed
    Services.    On-site 
    fleet management of equipment and turnkey copy center and
    mailroom management solutions that blend equipment, staff,
    service and supplies to maximize resources, minimize costs and
    improve customer operations.

Off-site Managed Services.   Specialized
    document management solutions for the legal industry through
    Legal Document Services, addressing the requirements of law
    firms and corporate counsel, including litigation reprographics,
    document imaging, coding and conversion services, legal graphics
    and electronic data discovery.

Customer Services.   Preventative maintenance
    and technical service support for office equipment and solutions.

Lease Financing.   Equipment lease financing to
    our North American and German customers through program
    agreements with GE or transactions with other syndicators.
    Equipment lease financing is offered to our customers in the
    U.K. through our captive finance subsidiaries and through third
    party leasing companies for customers in other European
    countries.

We are in the midst of a rapidly changing and competitive
    industry. We recognize the shifts taking place in our industry
    and we have been positioning ourselves to compete in this
    dynamic environment. We continue to refine our strategy by
    forming alliances with leading suppliers to expand and enhance
    our products and services portfolio.

During fiscal 2006, we continued to strengthen our product mix
    by moving toward higher-end black and white and color solutions.
    We offer a range of high volume black and white systems from
    Canon and Ricoh in speeds up to 150 pages per minute with the
    Canon imageRUNNER 150. In October 2005, we expanded our
    relationship with Konica Minolta and launched the IKON
    PrintCenterPro  tm  
    1050, a 105
     page-per-minute 
    monochrome device, offering customers a strong solution in the
    mid-production area, and followed that with the launch of the
    IKON

7

Table of Contents   

PrintCenterPro  tm  
    1050P, a printer-only version of the 105-page-per-minute device,
    in January 2006. Our color portfolio includes dedicated color
    systems from Canon, along with a range of color capable black
    and white devices from Canon and Ricoh. IKON also has a line of
    private-label color systems developed with Konica Minolta,
    including the 50 page per minute IKON
    CPP  tm  
    500 and IKON Business
    Pro  tm  
    500c. In October 2006, we launched the IKON
    CPP  tm  
    650, a 65 page per minute production color system developed with
    Konica Minolta and EFI.

Our integrated solutions portfolio includes software solutions
    and enablers from leading technology providers that span the
    document lifecycle, from input to management, output and
    storage. In fiscal 2006, we launched the IKON Premier Partner
    program for our solutions partners, including Kofax for document
    capture applications; eCopy for document capture and
    distribution; Captaris for enterprise fax management and
    distribution solutions; Notable Solutions (including IKON
    DocAccel  tm  )
    for distributed capture and document workflow systems; EFI and
    Rochester Software Associates for web submission and workflow
    tools; Equitrac for document accounting solutions; EMC
    Corporation (EMC Documentum ApplicationXtender), IBM, Westbrook
    Technologies and Laserfiche for information storage and
    archival; Kodak for CREO Color Servers technologies such as the
    IKON
    PowerPro  tm  
    500; and Objectif Lune for output and distribution software. The
    portfolio also features IKON-exclusive solutions such as IKON
    PowerPress  tm  ,
    a front-end system designed to streamline document workflows;
    IKON
    PowerPort  tm  
    a front-end system that translates disparate data streams,
    enabling open-architected printing and protecting customer
    technology investments; and IKON
    DocSend  tm  ,
    a document capture and delivery system that converts hard copies
    to digital files for easy delivery or storage.

In fiscal 2006, we added Print Control Software, Inc. to the
    IKON Premier Partner Program for its ROI Print Manager print
    management software, as well as Adobe for its Adobe LiveCycle
    enterprise software that integrates process management with
    intelligent documents.

Efficiency
    Initiatives  

We continued to invest in process improvements in fiscal 2006,
    and we completed the design and planning for our next migration
    to One Platform. Approximately one-third of our
    U.S. revenues are currently on the new information
    technology platform, and we plan to migrate another one-third of
    our U.S. revenues to the platform in fiscal 2007 as part of
    our One Platform Conversion.

Customers  

Our customer base is broad and diverse, numbering approximately
    500,000 organizations, including global and national companies,
    representing over 100 of the Fortune 500 companies, major
    regional companies, mid-size businesses, professional services
    firms and state, local and federal government agencies. Except
    as discussed below, no single customer accounted for more than
    10% of our revenues during fiscal 2006. We do, however, have
    certain key customers. The loss of, or major reduction in
    business from, one or more of our key customers could have a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position or
    results of operations.

While we sell equipment to GE in the U.S., Canada and Germany,
    as the case may be, in connection with the leasing transactions
    contemplated by the U.S. Program Agreement, Canadian Rider
    and the German Program Agreement, respectively, GE is not the
    intended end user of the equipment. In these transactions, GE is
    the equipment lessor to the end user. Accordingly, we do not
    consider GE to be a  customer,  despite the fact that
    we recognize revenue from these equipment sales to GE. During
    fiscal 2006, approximately 80% of our equipment revenues were
    attributable to equipment sales to GE in connection with our
    lease program relationships.

Suppliers
    and Inventory  

Our business is dependent upon our relationships with our
    primary suppliers and our ability to continue to purchase
    products from these suppliers on competitive terms. The products
    we distribute are purchased from numerous domestic and
    international suppliers, primarily Canon, Ricoh, Konica Minolta,
    EFI and HP. We also rely on our equipment suppliers for parts
    and supplies (see    General Business
    Developments  and    Product and Services
    Offerings ).

8

Table of Contents   

We conduct our business in reliance upon our continuing ability
    to purchase equipment, supplies and parts from our current
    suppliers pursuant to authorized retail dealer and wholesale
    agreements. However, we do not enter into long-term supply
    contracts with these suppliers and we have no current plans to
    do so in the future.

Our operations carry inventory to meet rapid delivery
    requirements of customers. At September 30, 2006,
    inventories accounted for approximately 16% of our current
    assets, which we believe is consistent with general industry
    standards.

Proprietary
    Matters  

We have a number of trademarks, trade names, service marks and
    other marks containing the word  IKON,  which we use
    in conducting our business. Other than the  IKON Office
    Solutions  and  IKON: Document Efficiency At
    Work  marks and other marks containing the word
     IKON  and their related marks, we do not believe that
    any single name, trademark, trade name or service mark is
    material to our businesses taken as a whole. Further, we have a
    policy of protecting our proprietary rights, including mandating
    the execution of confidentiality agreements whenever there is a
    potential transaction through which we may disclose confidential
    or proprietary information
     and/or 
    license or permit the use of any of our marks. However, any of
    our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or
    circumvented. Moreover, there is no guarantee that our
    proprietary rights will provide any significant competitive
    advantages.

Environmental
    Regulation  

We are presently engaged in distribution and services businesses
    that do not generate significant hazardous wastes. Federal,
    state and local provisions relating to the protection of the
    environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position or
    results of operations.

We are, however, involved in a number of environmental
    remediation actions to investigate and clean up certain sites
    related to our discontinued operations in accordance with
    applicable federal and state laws. Uncertainties about the
    status of laws and regulations, technology and information
    related to individual sites, including the magnitude of possible
    contamination, the timing and extent of required corrective
    actions and proportionate liabilities of other responsible
    parties, make it difficult to develop a meaningful estimate of
    probable future remediation costs. The measurement of
    environmental liabilities is based on an evaluation of currently
    available facts with respect to each individual site and
    considers factors such as existing technology, presently enacted
    laws and regulations, prior experience in remediation of
    contaminated sites and any studies performed for a site. As
    assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, these
    liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional
    technical and legal information that becomes available. After
    consideration of the defenses available to us, the accrual for
    such exposure, insurance coverage and other responsible parties,
    management does not believe that our obligations to remediate
    these sites would have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity, financial position or results of operations. For
    additional information, see Note 8 to the consolidated
    financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.

Employees  

At September 30, 2006, we had approximately 25,000
    employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are
    good. Some of our employees in Western Europe and Mexico are
    members of labor unions.

Competition  

The competitive marketplace is highly fragmented, characterized
    by many small local and regional competitors and a few large
    national competitors. A number of companies worldwide with
    significant financial resources and customer relationships
    compete with us to provide similar products and services. INA
    and IE provide substantially similar products and services and
    compete directly against companies such as Xerox, Pitney Bowes,
    Global Imaging Systems, Oc  Imagistics and Danka. INA and
    IE also compete against certain of their significant

9

Table of Contents   

suppliers, such as Canon, Ricoh, Konica Minolta and HP. In
    addition, INA and IE compete against smaller local independent
    office equipment distributors.

We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance,
    price, quality, reliability, distribution, customer service and
    support. In order to remain competitive, we must improve our
    products and services portfolio by obtaining new products and
    services, as well as competitive pricing and promotional
    programs, from our suppliers. We must periodically enhance our
    existing products and services and continually strive to improve
    our technology, performance, quality, reliability, distribution,
    customer service and support. Our future performance is largely
    dependent upon our ability to compete successfully in our
    currently-served markets and to expand into additional markets
    and product and services offerings. We believe that our
    continued focus on the needs of our customers, our ability to
    consistently deliver superior service and support and our strong
    customer relationships will distinguish us from our competitors.

Foreign
    Operations  

We have operations in Western Europe, Canada and Mexico.
    Approximately 17% of our revenues from continuing operations are
    derived from our international operations, and approximately 78%
    of those revenues are derived from the United Kingdom and
    Canada. Our future revenues, costs of operations and profits
    could be affected by a number of factors related to our
    international operations, including changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates, changes in economic conditions from country to
    country, changes in a country s political condition, trade
    protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements and
    local tax issues. For example, significant currency fluctuations
    in the Canadian Dollar, British Pound or Euro versus the
    U.S. Dollar could lead to lower reported consolidated
    results of operations due to the translation of these
    currencies. Information concerning our revenues and long-lived
    assets by geographic location for each of the three years during
    the period ended September 30, 2006 is set forth in
    Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included
    in Item 8 of this report. Revenues from exports during the
    last three fiscal years were not significant.

Availability
    of SEC Reports  

Our website is located at  www.ikon.com . We make our
    annual report on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to those reports, available, without charge,
    under the  Investor Relations  section of our website
    as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them
    electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the  SEC ).

Our SEC filings are available at the SEC s website at
     www.sec.gov . In addition, you can read and copy our SEC
    filings at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange,
    20 Broad Street, New York, New York, 10005. You may also
    read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the
    SEC s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C., 20549. You can request copies of these
    documents by writing to the SEC and paying a fee for the copying
    cost. Please call the SEC at
     1-800-SEC-0330 
    for more information about the operation of the public reference
    room.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

The
    intense competition in our industry could result in reduced
    profitability and loss of market share.   

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competition is
    based largely upon technology, performance, pricing, quality,
    reliability, distribution and customer support. A number of
    companies worldwide with significant financial resources or
    customer relationships compete with us to provide similar
    products and services, such as Xerox, Pitney Bowes, Global
    Imaging Systems, Oc  Imagistics and Danka. Our competitors
    may be positioned to offer and perform under more favorable
    product and service terms, resulting in reduced profitability
    and loss of market share for us. Some of our suppliers are also
    our competitors, such as Canon, Ricoh, Konica Minolta and HP,
    and supply us with the products we sell, service and lease. In
    addition, we compete against smaller local independent office
    equipment distributors. Financial pressures faced by our
    competitors may cause them to engage in uneconomic pricing
    practices, which could cause the prices that we are able to
    charge in the future for our products and services to be less
    than we have historically charged. Our future success is based
    in large part upon our

10

Table of Contents   

ability to successfully compete in the markets we currently
    serve, expand into additional product and services offerings and
    successfully perform complex Enterprise Services transactions,
    including hardware and software technology integrations,
    connectivity service engagements, assessment projects and
    software solutions. Our failure to do so could lead to a loss of
    market share, resulting in a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations.

A
    deterioration in our relationships with our suppliers or in the
    financial condition of our suppliers could have a material
    adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results
    of operations.   

Our access to equipment, parts and supplies is dependent upon
    close relationships with our suppliers and our ability to
    purchase products from our principal suppliers, including Canon,
    Ricoh, Konica Minolta, EFI and HP, on competitive terms. We do
    not enter into long-term supply contracts with these suppliers,
    and we have no current plans to do so in the future. These
    suppliers are not required to use us to distribute their
    equipment and are free to change the prices and other terms at
    which they sell to us. Any deterioration or change in our
    relationships with, or in the financial condition of, our
    significant suppliers, including some of our competitors, could
    have an adverse impact on our ability to generate equipment
    sales and to provide maintenance services. If one of these
    suppliers terminated or significantly curtailed its relationship
    with us, or if one of these suppliers ceased operations, we
    would be forced to expand our relationship with other suppliers,
    seek out new relationships with other suppliers or risk a loss
    in market share due to diminished product offerings and
    availability. In addition, as we continue to seek expansion of
    our products and services portfolio, we are developing
    relationships with certain software suppliers, including
    Captaris, eCopy and Kofax. As our relationships with software
    suppliers become more integral to our development and growth,
    the termination or significant curtailment of these
    relationships may force us to seek new relationships with other
    software suppliers, or pose a risk of loss in market share due
    to diminished software offerings. Any change in one or more of
    these suppliers  willingness or ability to continue to
    supply us with their products could have a material adverse
    effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of
    operations.

Our
    liquidity, financial position and results of operations are
    dependent on our relationship with GE.   

During fiscal 2004, we sold certain assets, including
    facilities, systems and processes relating to our U.S. and
    Canadian leasing operations, to and entered into a five year
    program agreement with GE, pursuant to which we designated GE as
    our preferred lease financing source in the U.S. and Canada. We
    sold additional assets to GE, namely retained U.S. lease
    receivables, as of April 1, 2006. We also sold German lease
    receivables to GE as of June 8, 2006, and entered into the
    German Program Agreement, pursuant to which we designated GE as
    our preferred lease financing source in Germany. Prior to our
    arrangements with GE, a significant portion of our profits were
    derived from our leasing operations in the U.S. and Canada.
    Pursuant to the agreements governing our relationship with GE,
    we are entitled to receive origination and certain other fees
    and income from sharing of gains on certain lease-end activities
    with respect to leases purchased or funded by GE under our
    leasing programs. Our right to receive a portion of these fees,
    namely the fees for providing preferred services for lease
    generation in the U.S., which have to date amounted to
    approximately $50,000 annually, will end as of March 31,
    2009, which is the end of the initial five-year term of the
    U.S. Program Agreement. If we are unable to negotiate a
    similar preferred fee structure with GE upon the renewal of the
    term of the U.S. Program Agreement, or if we elect to not
    renew our U.S. Program Agreement and are unable to arrange
    an alternative financing arrangement on similar terms, we may be
    unable to replace those fees at such time. Our ability to
    generate on-going revenue from our arrangement with GE is
    dependent upon our success in identifying and securing
    opportunities for lease financing transactions with our
    customers. Our failure to secure such opportunities for funding
    by GE could result in a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity, financial position and results of operations.
    Further, effective management of our program with GE requires
    that both parties integrate and reconcile complex systems and
    processes including lease-end management, sharing of residual
    gains, and other financial arrangements. The inability of either
    party to successfully do so may have a material adverse effect
    on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations.

We may renew our U.S. and Canada lease program agreements with
    GE at the end of the initial five-year term for a subsequent
    three- or five-year period, but there are no assurances that the
    agreements will be extended after the expiration of such
    subsequent period. If we elect not to renew our program
    agreements, we may incur certain exit or transition costs that
    may have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position
    and results of operations. In addition, GE could terminate the
    agreements before their expiration for material breach or upon a
    material adverse

11

Table of Contents   

change of our company (including an event of default under
    certain indebtedness of IKON). If GE were to no longer provide
    financing to our customers, we would likely try to arrange
    alternative financing arrangements on similar terms, or provide
    financing ourselves. If we were unable to either arrange
    financing on similar terms or provide financing ourselves, some
    of our customers might be unable or unwilling to purchase
    equipment from us, which could have an adverse effect on
    revenues. In addition, the early termination or non-extension of
    our agreements with GE could have a material adverse effect on
    our liquidity, financial position and results of operations.

We
    continue to implement substantial changes to our information
    systems. These actions could disrupt our business.   

Our One Platform Conversion to a common enterprise-wide
    information technology platform and related actions have
    required us to make substantial modifications to our information
    technology systems and business processes, including our billing
    systems, and contributed to certain control deficiencies
    identified in connection with the Billing Matter described
    below. Our failure to successfully and timely execute, or any
    disruption to, our One Platform Conversion could have a material
    adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results
    of operations.

Our
    system of internal control over financial reporting is currently
    ineffective due to a material weakness in our billing processes.
    If we fail to remediate this material weakness or any material
    weaknesses we may discover in the future, we may not be able to
    accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a
    result, our business, brand and operating results could be
    harmed or we could fail to meet our reporting
    obligations.   

Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary
    for us to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
    of our financial reports and to mitigate the risk of fraud. If
    we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over
    financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our
    financial results or prevent fraud, which may harm our business,
    brand and operating results. During fiscal 2005, we identified
    deficiencies in the processes and timeliness by which we issue
    certain invoices and, as a result, implemented processes
    designed to fairly present our financial results. Errors
    resulting from these deficiencies (collectively, the
     Billing Matter ) required us to restate certain of
    our previously issued financial statements. Pursuant to
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are
    required to furnish a report by management on internal control
    over financial reporting, including management s assessment
    of the effectiveness of such controls. During fiscal 2005 and
    2006, management determined that the Billing Matter constituted
    a material weakness in our internal control over financial
    reporting. Internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent or detect misstatements because of inherent limitations,
    including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or
    overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective
    internal control over financial reporting can provide only
    reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair
    presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections
    of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk
    that the internal control may become inadequate because of
    changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the
    policies or procedures may deteriorate. However, if we fail to
    maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial
    reporting, including any failure to implement required new or
    improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in
    implementation, our business, brand and operating results could
    be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.
    For example, in light of the Billing Matter, we implemented
    processes and performed additional procedures designed to ensure
    that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles (see Item 9A,
       Controls and Procedures ). Billed
    revenue, accounts receivable and deferred revenue are adjusted
    based on estimates derived by a statistically valid analysis of
    historical data in order to mitigate the financial impact of the
    Billing Matter. Changes to these estimates could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position and results of
    operations.

Our
    failure to improve our operational efficiency could have a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and
    results of operations.   

Our ability to improve our profit margins is largely dependent
    on the success of our initiatives to streamline our
    infrastructure and improve our operational efficiency. Our
    initiatives include the One Platform Conversion and

12

Table of Contents   

billing process improvements to ensure the timeliness and
    accuracy of our customer invoices. Our failure to implement
    these initiatives successfully, or the failure of such
    initiatives to result in improved profitability, could have a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and
    results of operations.

New
    technologies may affect our operations, and failures in the
    transition to new technologies could have a material adverse
    effect on our business.   

The document management solutions industry is a rapidly changing
    environment. If our suppliers fail to anticipate which products
    or technologies will gain market acceptance, or if we cannot
    sell such products at competitive prices, this could have a
    material adverse effect on our business. Significant
    technological changes in our industry may have ramifications
    that may not be foreseen. We cannot be certain that
    manufacturers of popular products, some of which are also our
    competitors, will permit us to market their newly developed
    products, or that such products will meet our customers 
    needs and demands. Additionally, because some of our principal
    competitors design and manufacture their own products, rather
    than relying on third parties, those competitors may have a
    competitive advantage over us. In addition, new products
    containing new technology may replace or compete with existing
    products placed by us or may be sold through other channels of
    distribution.

Our
    failure to comply with any material provisions of our various
    borrowing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity, financial position and results of
    operations.   

We entered into an amended and restated $200,000 secured credit
    facility (the  Credit Facility ) with a group of
    lenders effective June 28, 2006. The Credit Facility, which
    matures on June 28, 2011, provides the availability of
    revolving loans, with certain sub-limits, and provides support
    for letters of credit. The amount of credit available under the
    Credit Facility is reduced by open letters of credit. The amount
    available under the Credit Facility for borrowings was $170,080
    at September 30, 2006. The amount available under the
    Credit Facility for additional letters of credit was $70,080 at
    September 30, 2006. The Credit Facility is secured by our
    domestic accounts receivable and domestic inventory, the stock
    of our first-tier domestic subsidiaries, 65% of the stock of our
    first-tier foreign subsidiaries and all of our intangible
    assets. Under the terms of the Credit Facility, we are permitted
    to repurchase shares in an aggregate amount not to exceed
    (a) $100,000 over the remaining term of the Credit
    Facility, plus (b) 50% of net income (as defined in the
    Credit Facility) and (c) an additional aggregate amount of
    $75,000, as long as we maintain a proforma Leverage Ratio (as
    defined in the Credit Facility) of no greater than two times at
    the end of any fiscal quarter.

The Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants,
    including limitations on certain fundamental core business
    changes, investments and acquisitions, mergers, certain
    transactions with affiliates, creations of liens, asset
    transfers, payments of dividends, intercompany loans and certain
    restricted payments, including share repurchases. The Credit
    Facility contains certain financial covenants relating to:
    (i) our corporate leverage ratio; (ii) our
    consolidated interest coverage ratio; (iii) limitations on
    our capital expenditures; and (iv) limitations on
    additional indebtedness and liens. The indenture governing our
    outstanding 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015 (the  2015
    Notes ) contains similar covenants. Failure to comply with
    any material provision of the Credit Facility or the 2015 Notes
    could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial
    position and results of operations.

Added
    risks are associated with our international
    operations.   

We have international operations in Canada, Mexico and Western
    Europe. Approximately 17% of our revenues for fiscal 2006 were
    derived from our international operations, and approximately 78%
    of those revenues were derived from Canada and the United
    Kingdom. Our future revenues, costs of operations and net income
    could be adversely affected by a number of factors related to
    our international operations, including changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates, changes in economic conditions from
    country to country, changes in a country s political
    condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal
    requirements and local tax issues. For example, significant
    currency fluctuations in the Euro, British Pound or Canadian
    Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar could lead to lower reported
    consolidated results of operations due to the translation of
    these currencies.

13

Table of Contents   

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

(No response to this item is required.)

Item 2.      

Properties   

At September 30, 2006, we owned or leased over 400
    facilities in North America and Western Europe, of which
    approximately 1% are owned and 99% are leased under lease
    agreements with various expiration dates. These properties
    occupy a total of approximately 5 million square feet.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

We believe there are no legal proceedings that would require
    disclosure as required by Item 103 of
     Regulation S-K. 
    For information regarding matters in which we are involved, see
    Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    Item 8 of this report.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

(No response to this item is required.)

Item 4A.      

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant   

The following is a list of our current executive officers, their
    titles, the year they were first appointed to their current
    positions and their ages. Unless otherwise indicated, positions
    shown are with IKON or our subsidiaries.

Year First 

Name 

Title 

Appointed 

Age 

Matthew J. Espe

Chief Executive Officer, President
    and Chairman of the Board of Directors

2002

48

Robert F. Woods

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

2004

51

Brian D. Edwards

Senior Vice President, North
    American Sales and Services

2004

43

Mark A. Hershey

Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary

2005

37

Jeffrey W. Hickling

Senior Vice President, Operations

2005

51

Beth B. Sexton

Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources

1999

50

David Mills

Vice President, IKON Europe

1998

48

Theodore E. Strand

Vice President and Controller

2002

62

Matthew J. Espe.   Mr. Espe has been
    IKON s Chairman since 2003, and Chief Executive Officer,
    President and a Director since 2002. Prior to his employment
    with IKON, Mr. Espe was President and Chief Executive
    Officer of GE Lighting, a division of General Electric Company,
    a diversified industrial company (2000 through 2002), President
    of GE Plastics   Europe, a division of General
    Electric Company (1999 through 2000), and President of GE
    Plastics   Asia, a division of General Electric
    Company (1998 through 1999). He also serves on the Advisory
    Board of the University of Idaho and is a director of Unisys
    Corporation.

Robert F. Woods.   Mr. Woods joined IKON in
    September 2004 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer. Prior to joining IKON, he was Vice President and
    Controller of IBM, an information technology company (2002
    through 2004). He joined IBM in 1995 as Vice President of
    Services, Sales and Business Development for Asia Pacific and
    then moved on to the roles of Vice President  
    Finance, Asia Pacific Operations (1997 through 2000) and
    Vice President and Treasurer (2000 through 2002). Prior to his
    tenure at IBM, Mr. Woods spent 16 years with E.I. du
    Pont de Nemours and Company, where he held several senior
    positions in corporate and regional offices, including Vice
    President and Managing Director, DuPont Asia Pacific, and Vice
    President, Finance, DuPont Mexico.

Brian D. Edwards.   Mr. Edwards was
    appointed Senior Vice President, North American Sales and
    Services, in July 2006. Preceding this appointment, he served
    for two years as Senior Vice President, North American Sales. He
    began at IKON as a sales representative in 1985. Thereafter, he
    served in a variety of sales management roles, including
    Regional Vice President and General Manager of two IKON regions
    in the U.S.

14

Table of Contents   

Mark A. Hershey.   Mr. Hershey was
    appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
    in March 2005. Prior to his appointment, he spent six years with
    IKON, most recently as Vice President of Transactional Law.
    Prior to joining IKON, Mr. Hershey was an Associate in the
    corporate department of Stradley Ronon Stevens & Young,
    LLP in Philadelphia.

Jeffrey W. Hickling.   Mr. Hickling joined
    IKON as Senior Vice President of Operations in March 2005. Prior
    to joining IKON, Mr. Hickling held several positions at
    General Electric Company over approximately 30 years,
    including General Manager of Integration for GE Infrastructure
    (2004), General Manager of Electrical Components for GE
    Industrial Systems (2000 through 2003) and Chief Operating
    Officer for GE Supply (1998 through 1999).

Beth B. Sexton.   Ms. Sexton was promoted
    to Senior Vice President of Human Resources for IKON in August
    1999 after serving for two years as IKON s Vice President
    of Human Resources and two years as a Regional Vice President of
    Human Resources. Prior to joining IKON, Ms. Sexton served
    in various senior management roles in human resources with CH2M
    Hill and Norfolk Southern.

David Mills.   Mr. Mills was promoted to
    Vice President of IKON Europe in August 1998. Preceding this
    position, he served for two years as President of IKON U.K. and
    Finance Director and Managing Director of IOS Capital, PLC from
    1993 through 1996. Prior to joining IKON, Mr. Mills was a
    Finance Director of Erskine Limited in London, which was
    acquired by IKON in 1993. He spent a number of years with
    Erskine Limited in various financial and managerial positions
    before becoming Finance Director in 1992. Prior to that,
    Mr. Mills spent four years with Ernst and Young.

Theodore E. Strand.   Mr. Strand was named
    Vice President and Controller in October 2002. He joined IKON in
    1999 as Assistant Controller. Mr. Strand came to IKON from
    AMP Incorporated, where he was Director of Financial
    Operations   Asia Pacific. Prior to joining AMP
    Incorporated, Mr. Strand was with IBM for 31 years in
    various financial accounting management positions in the U.S.,
    France and Japan, his last position being Program Director of
    Accounting   IBM Japan.

15

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The New York Stock Exchange is the principal stock exchange on
    which our common stock is traded (ticker symbol IKN). As of
    November 29, 2006, there were approximately
    6,883 holders of record of our common stock. The
    information regarding the quarterly market price ranges of our
    common stock and dividend payments are disclosed in Note 19
    to the consolidated financial statements, included in
    Item 8 of this report.

We currently expect to continue our policy of paying regular
    cash dividends, although there can be no assurance as to future
    dividends because they are dependent upon future operating
    results, capital requirements and financial condition and may be
    limited by covenants in certain loan and debt agreements.

The equity compensation plan table and related footnotes
    included under Item 12    Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
    Stockholder Matters  on page 90 of this report is
    incorporated herein by reference.

The following table provides information relating to our
    purchases of our common stock during the quarter ended
    September 30, 2006:

16

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

Notes: 

(a)

Fiscal year results include an
    $11.5 net gain on the divestiture of businesses and a $5.5
    charge from the early extinguishment of debt. The gain on
    divestiture of business resulted in an increase in operating
    income of $11.5. The gain on divestiture of businesses and the
    loss from the early extinguishment of debt resulted in an
    increase in pre-tax income of $6.0 and an increase in net income
    of $7.9.

(b)

Fiscal year results include a $7.0
    charge from the early termination of a consulting contract, a
    $3.8 charge due to a change in certain UK pension
    liabilities, a $1.0 charge from the impact of Hurricanes Katrina
    and Rita, a $0.3 charge related to the consolidation of the
    Legal Document Services business, a $10.5 charge for
    restructuring and asset impairments, a $6.1 charge from the
    early termination of real estate

17

Table of Contents   

leases, a $11.5 net gain from
    the divestiture of businesses (collectively, the
     Charges ) and a $6.0 charge from the early
    extinguishment of debt. The Charges resulted in a decrease in
    operating income of $17.2. The Charges and the loss from the
    early extinguishment of debt resulted in a decrease in pre-tax
    income of $23.2 and net income of $12.2.

(c)

Fiscal year results include $35.9
    of losses from the early extinguishment of debt, a net loss of
    $11.4 on the divestiture of our North American leasing
    businesses (the  Loss on Sale ), tax reserve
    adjustments of $11.8 related to a tax gain on the sale of our
    U.S. leasing operations and benefits mainly from the
    settlement of a U.S. federal audit (the  Tax
    Adjustments ). The losses from the early extinguishment of
    debt and Loss on Sale resulted in a decrease in pre-tax income
    of $47.3 and the losses from the early extinguishment of debt,
    the Loss on Sale and the Tax Adjustments resulted in a decrease
    in net income of $17.9.

(d)

Fiscal year results include losses
    from the early extinguishment of debt, resulting in a decrease
    in pre-tax income of $19.2 and net income of $11.9.

(e)

Fiscal year results include gains
    from the reversal of certain prior year restructuring charges,
    resulting in an increase in operating income of $5.6 and net
    income of $3.6.

(f)

Current ratio = Total current
    assets/Total current liabilities

(g)

Working capital = Total current
    assets   Total current liabilities

(h)

Non-corporate debt refers to the
    line items on the balance sheet,  current portion of
    non-corporate debt  and  long-term non-corporate
    debt.  This debt is excluded from this calculation because
    lease receivables represent the primary source of repayment of
    non-corporate debt.

(i)

Capitalization = Total
    shareholders  equity + Total debt

(j)

The amount of stock based
    compensation reflected in selling and administrative expense for
    fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was $9,197 and $10,060, respectively,
    as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards ( SFAS ) 123(R),  Share Based
    Payment   Revised 2004  in fiscal 2005.

18

Table of Contents   

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

OVERVIEW  

We deliver integrated document management systems and solutions,
    enabling customers to improve document workflow and increase
    efficiency. We are the world s largest independent channel
    for copier, printer and multifunction product technologies,
    integrating
     best-in-class 
    systems from leading manufacturers, such as Canon, Ricoh, Konica
    Minolta, EFI and HP, and document management software from
    companies such as Captaris, eCopy, Kofax and others, to deliver
    tailored, high-value solutions implemented and supported by our
    services organization   IKON Enterprise Services. We
    offer financing in North America through a program agreement
    (the  U.S. Program Agreement ) with GE, and a
    rider to the U.S. Program Agreement (the  Canadian
    Rider ) with GE in Canada. Financing is offered to our
    customers in Germany through a lease program (the  German
    Program Agreement ) with GE in Germany, to our customers in
    the U.K. through our captive financing subsidiaries and through
    third party leasing companies for other countries in Europe. We
    represent one of the industry s broadest portfolios of
    document management services, including professional services, a
    unique blend of
     on-site  and
    off-site managed services, customized workflow solutions and
    comprehensive support through our services force of over 15,000
    employees, including our team of over 6,000 customer service
    technicians and support resources. We have over 400 locations
    throughout North America and Western Europe. References herein
    to  we,   us,   our, 
     IKON  or the  Company  refer to IKON Office
    Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context
    specifically requires otherwise.

For fiscal 2006, we outlined the following strategic priorities
    for our business:

core growth;

operational leverage; and

balanced capital strategy.

Our first strategic priority, core growth, involves growth in
    the mid-market and the National Account (Fortune 500 and large
    global and private companies) customer segments, as well as in
    targeted markets in Europe. In the mid-market, we continued to
    compete aggressively for new business through a combination of
    customer incentives, strategic inventory purchases that provided
    lower cost of goods and differentiated product bundles that
    leverage the brand strengths of our product mix. In addition, we
    succeeded in partnering with our key suppliers to introduce
    vendor support programs to continue to drive incremental
    business. The National Accounts team added 24 net new
    customers to the program and renewed 17 contracts during fiscal
    2006. We also successfully initiated several significant Managed
    Services relationships with National Account customers during
    fiscal 2006.

Our second priority, operational leverage, involves improving
    efficiencies across our operations, simplifying our business by
    eliminating unprofitable and non-strategic businesses and
    focusing on our targeted businesses. It also involves reducing
    expenses across the Company. Many of the actions undertaken
    during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 to achieve improved
    operational leverage are now positively impacting our financial
    statements. For example, selling and administrative expenses
    decreased $144,821, or 10.4%, compared to fiscal 2005, resulting
    in a selling and administrative expense to revenue ratio of
    29.6%, compared to 31.9% a year ago. As a result of our focus on
    operational leverage, our operating income as a percentage of
    revenue was 4.8% in fiscal 2006 compared to 3.6% for fiscal 2005.

We believe the success generated from our first two strategic
    priorities, core growth and operational leverage, enabled us to
    execute on our third strategic priority, a balanced capital
    strategy. During fiscal 2006, we made significant progress in
    the execution of this strategy by reducing debt and
    accomplishing dividend and share repurchase objectives. We
    redeemed the remaining $53,242 balance of our
    5% convertible subordinated notes due 2007 (the
     Convertible Notes ) and repurchased $81,204 of
    aggregate principal of our 7.25% notes due 2008 (the
     2008 Notes ). These actions contributed to the
    reduction of our debt to capital ratio to 32.5% at
    September 30, 2006, from 44.4% at September 30, 2005.
    During fiscal 2006, we also paid dividends of $21,009, or
    $0.16 per share, repurchased 10,677 shares of our
    outstanding common stock for approximately $130,857 and made
    pension contributions of $100,210, which significantly reduced
    our under-funded pension position. Additionally, during

19

Table of Contents   

fiscal 2006, we sold both our remaining U.S. retained lease
    portfolio (the  U.S. Retained Portfolio ) and our
    German lease portfolio to GE, which, after tax payments and the
    repayment of related debt, netted the Company approximately
    $108,000 of cash. The sale of these portfolios contributed
    significantly to the $307,690 reduction of our non-corporate
    debt during fiscal 2006.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS  

This discussion reviews the results of our operations as
    reported in the consolidated statements of income. All dollar
    and share amounts are in thousands, except per share data.
    Unless otherwise noted, references to 2006, 2005 and 2004, refer
    to the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively.

Fiscal
    2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005  

Summary
    of Consolidated Results   

For fiscal 2006, we had total revenues of $4,228,249,
    representing a $149,056, or 3.4%, decrease from fiscal 2005.
    This decrease is primarily a result of the expected decline in
    finance income from the run-off and sale of the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio, the sale of our operating
    subsidiaries in France and Mexico, the sale of Kafevend Group
    PLC, our coffee vending business in the United Kingdom
    ( Kafevend ), the continued de-emphasis of our
    technology services and hardware businesses and a decline in
    Customer Service revenue. These decreases were partially offset
    by an increase in Managed and Professional Services revenue and
    an increase in Equipment revenue compared to fiscal 2005.

Reportable
    Segments   

Our reportable segments are consistent with how we manage the
    business, analyze our results and view the markets we serve. Our
    two reportable segments are IKON North America ( INA )
    and IKON Europe ( IE ). INA and IE provide copiers,
    printers, color solutions and a variety of document management
    service capabilities through IKON Enterprise Services.
    Approximately 88% of our revenues were generated by INA and
    approximately 94% of INA revenues are generated within the U.S.;
    accordingly, many of the items discussed below regarding our
    discussion of INA are primarily related to the U.S.

20

Table of Contents   

*

Corporate and eliminations, which
    is not treated as a reportable segment, includes certain selling
    and administrative functions such as finance, legal, marketing,
    human resources and executive costs.

21

Table of Contents   

Equipment   

Equipment revenue includes the sale of new and used copiers,
    printers and multifunction products and is comprised of two
    categories based on the output capability of the device, color
    and black and white. Color is further categorized by production
    color, for high speed and high quality color output, and
    color-capable, for products that print both black and white
    images and color images. Black and white is categorized by speed
    segment, with office black and white representing print speeds
    from 10 to 69 pages per minute, banded in four segments called
    segment 1 - 4, and production black and white representing print
    speeds of 70 pages and higher per minute, banded in speed
    segments called segment 5 and segment 6. Color, production black
    and white and office black and white equipment revenue
    represented approximately 28%, 18% and 52%, respectively, of
    total U.S. equipment revenue during fiscal 2006. The
    remaining 2% represented revenue from printers, faxes and other.

The increase in INA Equipment revenue of 1.0%
     year-over-year 
    was attributed primarily to growth in color and at the high end
    of the production segment, partially offset by a decline in the
    office segment. The strong performance in color was driven by
    the continued success of our high-speed production equipment
    such as the IKON CPP
    500  tm  ,
    as well as strong growth from our color-capable lineup.
    U.S. color revenue increased approximately 10%
     year-over-year, 
    primarily driven by a 28% growth in placements. Partially
    offsetting this growth was a decline in average selling prices,
    particularly in color, driven by competition and to a greater
    extent the combination of our customer incentives aimed at
    placement share growth and the introduction of new models with
    more functionality at lower price points. We anticipate the
    growth in color to continue from the success of existing models
    as well as from new color product offerings from Canon, Ricoh
    and Konica Minolta during fiscal 2007. The growth in the
    production black and white segment is attributed to the strong
    demand for units such as the IKON PrintCenterPro
    1050  tm  
    and our Canon segment 6 black and white products. During fiscal
    2006, segment 6 placements increased over 70% compared to fiscal
    2005. The decline in the office segment was primarily attributed
    to the anticipated decline in revenue in office black and white
    driven by customers replacing black and white devices with new
    color-capable devices, and partially from competition. IE
    Equipment revenue experienced strong growth in the production
    and color segments, particularly in Germany, and continued to
    benefit from the success of our Pan European and Global accounts
    initiative across Europe, which showed significant growth
     year-over-year. 

The decrease in Equipment gross profit margin from the prior
    year was driven by a combination of factors including the
    increased mix of color-capable products with lower historical
    color margins, price pressure at the high end of segment 6,
    the continued impact of market forces on average selling prices
    and a
     year-over-year 
    increase in freight costs driven by a rise in fuel costs.

Customer
    Service and Supplies   

INA Customer Service (maintenance and service of equipment,
    which is driven by the total machines we service in the field,
    referred to as  MIF , and the number and mix of copies
    made on those machines) and supplies revenue decreased
    approximately 3.0% compared to fiscal 2005. We believe this
    declining trend in Customer Service revenue will continue into
    fiscal 2007, although we expect the
     year-to-year 
    trend to improve as the year progresses. Analog copies, which
    have higher average revenue per copy than black and white
    digital copies,

22

Table of Contents   

declined 42%
     year-over-year 
    as we transition our customers out of analog and into digital.
    In addition, we experienced a
     year-over-year 
    pricing decline for digital copies. Partially offsetting these
    trends is the shift to color copies, with higher revenue per
    copy than black and white, as well as an increase in total
    digital copy volume. Color copies increased 44% and overall
    digital copies (which include both color and black and white)
    increased 6% compared to fiscal 2005. As of September 30,
    2006, analog copies approximate 6% of total copies. We estimate
    the transition out of analog will be completed in late 2007 or
    early 2008. Strong placement growth in digital equipment
    combined with the increase in overall digital copies and the mix
    shift to color will all be important contributors in the effort
    to outpace the expected decline in digital revenue per copy. IE
    Customer Service and Supplies revenue increased
     year-over-year 
    by approximately 2.7% primarily as a result of the increase in
    color copy volume and from the success of our Pan European and
    Global accounts initiative across Europe.

The decrease in Customer Service and Supplies  gross profit
    margin was primarily a result of a
     year-over-year 
    decrease in revenue, partially offset by a decrease in the
    consumption of parts and supplies, a lower cost structure in
    North America as a result of the restructuring actions taken
    during fiscal 2005 and the continued focus on cost reduction and
    productivity improvements.

Managed
    and Professional Services   

Managed Services is comprised of our
     On-site 
    Managed Services business, which includes facilities management,
    copy center and mail room operations, and our Off-site Managed
    Services business, which is comprised primarily of Legal
    Document Services ( LDS ), a business focused on
    transactional document processing projects for both law firms
    and corporate legal departments. Professional Services includes
    the integration of hardware and software technologies that
    capture, manage, control and store output for customers 
    document lifecycles. Our
     On-site 
    Managed Services, Off-site Managed Services and Professional
    Services businesses represented 68.3%, 21.9% and 9.8% of total
    Managed and Professional Services revenue in fiscal 2006.

INA Managed and Professional Services revenue increased $35,358,
    or 5.4%, during the year ended September 30, 2006 compared
    to the year ended September 30, 2005.
     On-site 
    Managed Services revenue, which represents approximately 12% of
    the total INA revenue mix, increased 8.0%, primarily due to the
    expansion of our existing customer base and also from an
    increase in net new contracts. Off-site Managed Services
    revenue, which represents approximately 4% of total INA revenue
    mix, declined 7.9%, primarily as a result of the decision to
    close 16 unprofitable locations during fiscal 2005, and
    continuing competitive pressure that resulted in a
     year-over-year 
    reduction in the number of projects. Professional Services,
    which represents approximately 2% of our total INA revenue mix,
    increased 30% during fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. This
    increase was driven by the growth in connectivity and
    installation services associated with growth of new digital
    placements, as well as revenue increases in document
    assessments. Managed and Professional Services revenue in Europe
    declined by 7.7% from fiscal 2005. This decline was driven
    primarily by the cancellation of several unprofitable contracts
    throughout fiscal 2005. The increase in Managed and Professional
    Services gross profit margin was a result of a
     year-over-year 
    improvement in
     On-Site 
    contract profitability in North America and Europe.

Rental
    and Fees   

23

Table of Contents   

Revenue generated from Rental and Fees, which includes rental
    income on operating leases, income from the sharing of gains on
    certain lease-end activities with GE in the U.S., and fees from
    GE for providing preferred services for lease generation in the
    U.S. (the  Preferred Fees ) decreased when
    compared to the same period of fiscal 2005, due primarily to the
    sale of the U.S. Retained Portfolio, which included the
    sale of certain operating leases. We expect to earn
    approximately $50,000 of Preferred Fees annually until the
    initial term of the U.S. Program Agreement terminates on
    March 31, 2009. Sharing revenue and associated costs of
    revenue decreased primarily due to the sale of the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio. As a result of the sale, we now
    realize a lower amount of revenue, but we incur no costs with
    respect to sharing of gains on certain lease-end activities with
    GE in the U.S.

Other
    Revenue   

Other Revenue includes finance income and revenue generated by
    our de-emphasized technology services and hardware businesses.
    Prior to fiscal 2006, Other Revenue also included revenue from
    our operating subsidiaries in Mexico and France, which were sold
    during fiscal 2005 and Kafevend, which was sold in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2006. The combined
     year-over-year 
    impact of the sale of our operating subsidiaries in Mexico and
    France in fiscal 2005 and Kafevend in the first quarter of
    fiscal 2006 was $71,414. Finance income decreased $57,254 due to
    the impact of the run-off and sale of the U.S. Retained
    Portfolio and the sale of our German lease portfolio during the
    third quarter of fiscal 2006.

Selling
    and Administrative Expenses   

Selling and administrative expenses decreased by $144,821, or
    10.4%, during fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 and decreased
    as a percentage of revenue from 31.9% to 29.6%. In fiscal 2006,
    we continued to take aggressive actions to achieve our goal of
    reducing selling and administrative expenses through a
    combination of headcount and real estate reductions,
    discretionary expense reductions, freezing certain defined
    benefit plans and the elimination of unprofitable or
    non-strategic business lines to streamline our selling and
    administrative structure.

Significant changes in selling and administrative expenses
    impacting the Company were:

24

Table of Contents   

a decrease of $11,926 related to rent and facilities expense
    primarily due to the closure of 16 LDS sites as a result of the
    restructuring actions taken during the second quarter of fiscal
    2005 and the closure and consolidation of other facilities
    during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 offset
    slightly by charges incurred in fiscal 2006 related to other
    real estate closures as we continue to rationalize our real
    estate needs;

a decrease of $23,334 in professional fees related primarily to
    a decrease in marketing and other professional fees during
    fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005, a one time charge of $7,000
    in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 related to the termination
    of a consulting contract and lower fees incurred in fiscal 2006
    compared to fiscal 2005 in our effort to comply with the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( SOX 

a one time charge of $3,798 incurred in fiscal 2005 related to
    changes in certain U.K. pension liabilities;

pension expense, which is allocated between selling and
    administrative expense and cost of revenues based on the number
    of employees related to those areas, decreased from $43,079 in
    fiscal 2005 to $27,603 in fiscal 2006 as a result of the freeze
    of our U.S. Pension Plans and the change in the weighted
    average discount rate assumption. The
     year-over-year 
    decline attributed specifically to selling and administrative
    was $9,569.

Other
    Items   

The $11,497 gain on divestiture of businesses and assets during
    the year ended September 30, 2006 relates primarily to the
    $6,396 gain from the sale of the U.S. Retained Portfolio in
    April 2006 and the $4,924 gain on the sale of Kafevend in
    October 2005. During fiscal 2005, we recognized a net gain of
    $11,531 as a result of the completion of the closing balance
    sheet audit related to the sale of certain assets and
    liabilities of our U.S. leasing business (the
     U.S. Transaction ) and our Canadian lease
    portfolio (the  Canadian Transaction ) to GE in the
    U.S. and Canada, the sale of substantially all of our operations
    in Mexico and France and the sale of two small business units
    that provided technology equipment and service to customers.

The $5,535 loss incurred from the early extinguishment of debt
    during the year ended September 30, 2006 is the combination
    of the loss, including the write-off of unamortized costs, of
    $3,885 and $1,650, incurred from the tender of our 2008 Notes
    and the repurchase of the remaining balance of our Convertible
    Notes, respectively. During the year ended September 30,
    2005, we repurchased $236,758 of our Convertible Notes for
    $239,763. As a result, we recognized a loss, including the
    write-off of unamortized costs, of $6,034 during fiscal 2005.

Interest income increased from fiscal 2005 due to an increase in
    the average interest rate and average invested cash balance
    during fiscal 2006.

Interest expense decreased slightly from fiscal 2005. This was
    the result of the reduction in our corporate debt, partially
    offset by the interest cost on the $225,000, 7.75%
     10-year 
    notes issued September 2005 (the  2015 Notes ) as
    compared to the 5% Convertible Notes which they replaced.

Our effective income tax rate was 32.7% and 30.3% for the years
    ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The fiscal
    2006 tax rate includes a non-recurring benefit on the
    divestiture of Kafevend, which resulted in no tax liability and
    lowered our overall effective income tax rate in fiscal 2006. In
    addition, the following discrete items are recorded in the year
    ended September 30, 2006: (1) a charge from our
    foreign earnings repatriation as discussed in Note 15 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, (2) a
    charge resulting from the revaluation of a Canadian deferred tax
    asset driven by legislative tax rate changes, offset by
    (3) a benefit recognized from the release of a valuation
    allowance associated with capital loss carryforwards that we
    utilized to offset the

25

Table of Contents   

gain from the sale of the U.S. Retained Portfolio
    (4) a benefit from the release of a tax reserve for which
    the underlying tax exposure has been resolved, (5) a
    benefit from the revaluation of the state net operating loss
    ( NOL ) deferred tax asset driven by a Pennsylvania
    legislative change to annual NOL utilization limitations and
    (6) a benefit from the difference between our actual state
    tax liability upon the filing of our state tax returns compared
    to the deferred state tax provision. The fiscal 2005 tax rate
    benefited from tax planning strategies in Ireland and the
    reversal of valuation allowances of $3,539 as a result of the
    gain on the sale of our operating subsidiary in France. This
    benefit was partially offset by a limitation on the tax benefit
    associated with the sale of our Mexican operating subsidiary.
    Our consolidated tax valuation allowance was $28,483 and $30,946
    at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For fiscal
    2007, we expect our effective income tax rate to be between 36%
    and 37%.

Diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations
    were $0.80 for September 30, 2006, compared to $0.51 for
    September 30, 2005. This increase was attributable mainly
    to the impact of a
     year-over-year 
    selling and administrative expense decrease of 10.4%, fewer
    outstanding shares of our common stock and the impact of
    one-time charges from restructuring actions taken during fiscal
    2005, partially offset by lower gross profit dollars.

Fiscal
    2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004  

Summary
    of Consolidated Results   

For fiscal 2005, we had total revenues of $4,377,305,
    representing a $188,403 or 4.1%, decline from fiscal 2004. This
    decline is a result of an overall decrease in finance income as
    a result of the sales of our North American leasing business and
    our operating subsidiaries in France and Mexico, lower sales of
    de-emphasized technology hardware, lower supply sales and lower
    Managed Services and Customer Services revenues. These decreases
    were partially offset by an increase in revenues
     year-over-year 
    as a result of benefits realized from fees received under the
    U.S. Program Agreement and the Canadian Rider.

26

Table of Contents   

*

Corporate and eliminations, which
    is not treated as a reportable segment, includes certain selling
    and administrative functions such as finance, legal, marketing,
    human resources and executive costs.

Equipment   

Equipment revenue increased by $22,819, or 1.3%, compared to
    fiscal 2004 due mainly to the net impact of the relationship
    with GE and continued growth from the sale of color equipment.
    North American equipment sales decreased slightly due to
    competitive pressures and the impact of the newly introduced
    black and white models positioned at lower average selling
    prices, partially offset by the relationship with GE.
    Origination fees and sales of residual value to GE (not
    recognized as revenue when we had captive finance subsidiaries
    in North America) contributed $77,879 of incremental equipment
    revenue in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. In addition,
    first quarter fiscal 2005 equipment revenues were impacted by
    changes in sales coverage and selling processes and sales
    incentives for our employees, as we launched important long-term
    initiatives in Professional Services and the Integrated Selling
    Model. U.S. revenues generated from the sale of color
    devices increased by 10% compared to fiscal 2004 due to higher
    demand for these products, particularly higher-end color
    production equipment, as new products were introduced at more
    affordable prices. As a percentage of U.S. equipment
    revenue, color devices increased from approximately 21% in
    fiscal 2004 to approximately 25% in fiscal 2005.
    U.S. revenues from sales of segment 5 and 6 black and white
    production equipment decreased approximately 15% compared to
    fiscal 2004 due to continued pricing pressure, a shift to
    lower-end products within this segment and new alternate
    products available

27

Table of Contents   

in segment 4. U.S. placements of segment 5 and 6 black and
    white production equipment decreased 12% from fiscal 2004.
    U.S. revenues from the sale of segment 1-4 black and white
    office equipment declined approximately 5% compared to fiscal
    2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower average selling
    prices as we offered attractive marketing bundles in an effort
    to increase market share in the mid-market customer base as
    noted by an increase in U.S. placements of segment 1-4
    equipment of approximately 3% from the prior year. As of
    September 30, 2005, U.S. revenues from the sale of
    black and white office equipment represented approximately 55%
    of the U.S. equipment revenue, compared to approximately
    56% in fiscal 2004.

European equipment revenues increased by $23,136, or 12.6%,
    compared to fiscal 2004, primarily due to the success of our
    City Expansion Strategy in Europe and also from a favorable
    currency benefit.

The decrease in Equipment gross profit margin from the prior
    year was primarily due to lower North American equipment margins
    resulting from competitive pricing and customer incentives and
    growth in lower-margin National Accounts program revenues. This
    is consistent with our continued market competitiveness coupled
    with strategic pricing and related marketing promotions to drive
    placement growth and market share.

Customer
    Service and Supplies   

Customer Service and supplies revenue decreased by $23,524, or
    1.6%, compared to fiscal 2004. INA customer service and supplies
    revenue decreased $32,387 due to lower average revenue per copy
    and the impact of specific concessions made to customers during
    the second quarter of fiscal 2005. These decreases were
    partially offset by an overall increase in copy volumes of
    approximately 2%, driven by a 9% increase in color copy volumes
    compared to fiscal 2004. Supply sales decreased compared to the
    prior year due to lower demand for fax and lower-end copier
    supplies. European Customer Service and Supplies revenue
    increased 6.5% from fiscal 2004 which were driven by an increase
    in copy volumes and the continued focus on color products.

Customer Services gross margin increased due to a lower cost
    structure as a result of the second quarter of fiscal 2005
    restructuring actions, partially offset by the impact of
    specific concessions made to customers during fiscal 2005.

Managed
    and Professional Services   

Managed Services revenue decreased by $18,162, or 2.7%. Off-site
    Managed Services of $176,034, declined $43,061, or 19.7%, from
    fiscal 2004. This decline is due mainly to the INA restructuring
    actions we took during the second quarter of fiscal 2005, which
    involved the closure of 16 sites, as well as continued pricing
    pressure and the impact of a large INA commercial imaging
    contract during the first quarter of fiscal 2004, which
    benefited fiscal 2004 revenues by $10,119.
     On-site 
    Managed Services revenue, including facilities management,
    document production and mailroom operations of $477,793, grew
    5.5% from fiscal 2004. This was a result of an increase in new
    contracts and the continued expansion of existing contracts.
    Professional Services revenue of $56,175 increased $7,403, or
    15.2%, over prior year due to the growing demand for document
    assessment and workflow improvements by our customers. European
    Managed Services revenues decreased from fiscal 2004 due to a
    reduction of Off-site Managed Service locations due to the sale
    of substantially all of our operations in France in July 2005.

28

Table of Contents   

Managed and Professional Services gross margin decreased by
    $30,920, or 14.5%, compared to the prior year. The Managed
    Services gross margin percentage during fiscal 2004 was
    negatively impacted by 43 basis points from the completion
    of a multi-year commercial imaging contract in which no profit
    was earned. In addition, Off-site Managed Services margins
    declined compared to prior year due to the impact of lower
    revenues. The Off-site Managed Services cost structure is less
    variable than our other lines of business; therefore, gross
    margin percentages are more heavily influenced by changes in
    revenue. The Professional Services gross margin percentage also
    decreased compared to fiscal 2004 due to an increase in staffing
    levels in advance of an expected increase in demand during the
    first half of fiscal 2005.

Rental
    and Fees   

Revenue generated from Rental and Fees increased when compared
    to fiscal 2004, primarily because of the impact of fees received
    as a result of the GE relationship, including Preferred Fees
    during fiscal 2005 and 2004 of $41,653 and $25,335,
    respectively, and the related impact of lease-end sharing
    activities. As a result, the impact of the GE relationship
    positively impacted Rental and Fees revenue by $38,179 during
    fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. This increase can be
    primarily attributed to the fact that fiscal 2005 represented
    the first full year of our GE relationship, as the relationship
    began in mid fiscal 2004. We expect to earn approximately
    $50,000 of Preferred Fees annually until the initial term of the
    U.S. Program Agreement terminates on March 31, 2009.
    In addition, the net impact of the GE relationship (income from
    the sharing of gains on certain lease-end activities with GE as
    well as the Preferred Fees) positively impacted the Rental and
    Fees gross margin by approximately 210 basis points.

Other
    Revenue   

Other Revenue includes finance income and revenue generated by
    our de-emphasized technology services and hardware businesses.
    Other Revenue also includes revenue from our operating
    subsidiaries in Mexico and France, which were sold during fiscal
    2005 and contributed to the
     year-over-year 
    decline in revenue. Finance income is generated by our leasing
    subsidiaries as well as certain lease receivables not sold to GE
    as part of the U.S. Transaction. The decrease in finance
    income was primarily due to the continued run-off of the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio. In addition, finance income was
    impacted by the sale of our Canadian lease portfolio during the
    third quarter of fiscal 2004 as part of the Canadian
    Transaction. Accordingly, lease receivables sold as part of the
    Canadian Transaction

29

Table of Contents   

did not generate finance income for us during fiscal 2005. These
    decreases were partially offset by a currency benefit of 0.8%.
    Sales of technology hardware declined by $27,654, or 43.4%,
    compared to fiscal 2004, as we did not renew several large
    customer relationships for fiscal 2005 as we continue to
    de-emphasize this business.

The gross margin percentage on finance income increased from
    67.3% in fiscal 2004 to 75.0% in fiscal 2005. This change is
    attributable to European leasing revenues becoming a larger part
    of the finance income mix in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
    2004. European leases are leveraged with a lower amount of debt;
    therefore, European leases generate higher profit margins than
    our sold North American leases. In addition, there was a lower
    leverage ratio on the U.S. lease receivable portfolio that
    we retained after the U.S. Transaction. As a result of our
    assumption of the public debt of IOS Capital, LLC
    ( IOSC ), our former U.S. leasing subsidiary sold
    to GE during fiscal 2004 (the 9.75% notes due 2004,
    Convertible Notes and the 2008 Notes (collectively, the
     Additional Corporate Debt ) as part of the
    U.S. Transaction, interest on this debt, which was reported
    in  finance interest expense  prior to April 1,
    2004, is now reported as  interest expense .
    Accordingly, an additional $11,700 of interest expense related
    to the Additional Corporate Debt was recorded during fiscal 2005
    in  interest expense  rather than  finance
    interest expense.  As a result, the gross margin on finance
    income was positively impacted by this change in classification.

Selling
    and Administrative Expenses   

Selling and administrative expenses, which were unfavorably
    impacted by $9,640 due to foreign currency translation compared
    to the prior year, decreased by $74,038, or 5.0%, during fiscal
    2005 compared to fiscal 2004, and decreased as a percentage of
    revenue from 32.2% to 31.9%.

The net impact of the U.S. Transaction and Canadian
    Transaction of $43,262 was a significant factor in the decrease
    of selling and administrative expense compared to fiscal 2004.
    Approximately $22,485 of this decrease was due to no lease
    default expense being required for either retained or sold IOSC
    lease receivables during fiscal 2005. Under the terms of the
    U.S. Program Agreement, GE assumed substantially all risks
    related to lease defaults for both the retained and sold lease
    receivables. The remaining decrease in selling and
    administrative expense attributable to the U.S. Transaction
    due to the transfer of over 300 employees to GE. Partially
    offsetting these decreases were increases in corporate costs to
    support the U.S. Transaction and Canadian Transaction
    including headcount and certain infrastructure enhancements. In
    addition, fees paid to GE to service our U.S. Retained
    Portfolio increased by $1,868 compared to fiscal 2004. Included
    within this increase is the impact of a refund received from GE
    of approximately $3,400 related to administrative fees paid to
    GE for servicing our retained U.S. Retained Portfolio
    during fiscal 2004.

Other
    Selling and Administrative Expenses  

Other significant changes in selling and administrative expenses
    impacting the Company were:

a decrease in pension costs of $4,253 compared to fiscal 2004,
    due mainly to the impact of changes in actuarial assumptions.
    Pension expense is allocated between selling and administrative
    expense and cost of revenues based on the number of employees
    related to those areas;

a decrease of $8,896 in selling compensation and benefit costs
    due primarily to headcount reductions and a decline in revenues
    compared to fiscal 2004;

an increase of $10,060 related to expensing of stock based
    compensation due to adoption of SFAS 123(R)  Share
    Based Payment   Revised 2004 
    ( SFAS 123(R) ), during fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2004
    results did not include any expense related to our stock option
    plans;

a decrease of $19,575 compared to fiscal 2004 as a result of
    lower spending for information technology, travel and other
    expenses due to discretionary spending reductions during fiscal
    2005, partially offset by higher consulting fees from our
    internal controls certification efforts required by SOX;

30

Table of Contents   

a decrease of $10,547 compared to fiscal 2004 related to a
    reduction of real estate facility costs primarily due to the
    closure of 16 LDS sites as a result of the restructuring actions
    taken during the second quarter of fiscal 2005 and the closure
    and consolidation of other facilities during the third and
    fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 as we continue to rationalize our
    real estate needs;

a charge of $6,112 incurred during fiscal 2005 to terminate
    several real estate leases during the year, representing both
    lease termination payments made to lessors as well as future
    lease payments for sites in which we ceased using the facility;

a charge of $7,000 for the termination of a consulting contract
    during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005;

a charge of $1,000 incurred during fiscal 2005 related to the
    impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita;

a charge of $3,798 related to changes in certain U.K. pension
    liabilities; and

during fiscal 2004, we incurred a charge of $6,272 related to
    termination costs of a long-term disability plan and incurred a
    charge of $2,300 related to an adverse legal judgment we
    received on a claim in Canada.

Other
    Items   

During fiscal 2005, we recognized a net gain of $11,531 as a
    result of the completion of the closing balance sheet audits
    related to the U.S. Transaction and the Canadian
    Transaction, the sale of substantially all of our operations in
    Mexico and France and the sale of two small business units that
    provided technology equipment and services to customers. During
    fiscal 2004, we recognized a net loss of $11,427 as a result of
    the U.S. Transaction and the Canadian Transaction.

During fiscal 2005, we took several actions to reduce costs,
    increase productivity and improve operating income. These
    actions involved our operations in our Business Document
    Services ( BDS ) (reported as a discontinued
    operation), Legal Document Services ( LDS ), our North
    American field organization and corporate staff and Mexico.
    These actions resulted in a restructuring charge of $10,543 in
    fiscal 2005. See  Restructuring  on page 38 for
    further information.

During fiscal 2005, we repurchased $236,758 of the Convertible
    Notes for $239,763. As a result of these repurchases, we
    recognized a loss, including the write-off of unamortized costs,
    of $6,034 during fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2004, we recorded a
    loss from the early extinguishment of debt of $35,906, as a
    result of the repurchase of various debt instruments.

Interest income increased from fiscal 2004 due to an increase in
    average interest rates during fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
    2004. The average invested cash balance remained relatively
    consistent
     year-over-year. 

Interest expense increased due to the assumption of the
    Additional Corporate Debt as part of the U.S. Transaction.
    Interest on this debt, which was reported in  finance
    interest expense  prior to April 1, 2004, was
    subsequently reported as  interest expense.  This
    change resulted in approximately $11,700 of additional interest
    expense being recorded in  interest expense  for
    fiscal 2005 compared to the same period in fiscal 2004. This
    increase was partially offset by an overall lower average
    outstanding debt balance during fiscal 2005 compared to the same
    period during fiscal 2004 as a result of our efforts to improve
    our capital structure.

31

Table of Contents   

The effective income tax rate was 30.3% and 25.6% for fiscal
    2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. The increase in the
    effective income tax rate is due primarily to certain
    non-recurring items that reduced the tax rate in fiscal 2004.
    These items were a tax benefit of $7,048 due mainly to the
    favorable settlement of a U.S. federal tax audit, the
    reversal of valuation allowances on state net operating loss
    carryovers of $4,720 as a result of the tax gain generated by
    the U.S. Transaction during fiscal 2004 and the reversal of
    valuation allowances on our Canadian net operating loss
    carryovers of $2,603 as a result of improved financial
    performance achieved by our Canadian operations. In addition,
    the tax benefit relating to the sale of our Mexican operations
    during the second quarter of fiscal 2005 was reduced due to
    capital loss limitations. Partially offsetting the increase in
    income tax expense is a tax benefit of $2,127 associated with
    the deferral of depreciation expense for tax purposes in Ireland
    and the reversal of valuation allowances of $3,539 as a result
    of the gain on the sale of our operating subsidiary in France.
    Our consolidated tax valuation allowance was $30,946 and $29,162
    at September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations
    were $0.51 for fiscal 2005 compared to $0.58 for fiscal 2004.
    This decline was attributable mainly to the impact of lower
    finance income due to the run-off of the retained
    U.S. lease portfolio and the impact of the
    U.S. transaction and the Canadian Transaction, the decrease
    in equipment gross margins, the impact of lower Customer
    Services and Managed Services revenues and the impact of
    expensing stock based compensation, which began on
    October 1, 2004, partially offset by the effect of the
    fiscal 2005 restructuring activities, the sale or closure of
    unprofitable operations and our cost reduction efforts during
    fiscal 2005.

Financial
    Condition and Liquidity  

Cash
    Flows and Liquidity   

The following summarizes cash flows for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 as reported in our consolidated
    statements of cash flows:

Operating
    Cash Flows  

For the year ended September 30, 2006, cash provided by
    operating activities was $97,791. Net income from continuing
    operations was $106,249 and non-cash operating expenses, which
    include items such as depreciation, amortization, stock based
    compensation expense, restructuring and asset impairment
    charges, provisions for losses on accounts receivable and
    leases, gains on divestiture of businesses and assets, loss on
    early extinguishment of debt, loss on disposal of property and
    equipment, pension expense and deferred income taxes, were
    $15,284. Significant sources of cash included a decrease in
    accounts receivable of $91,536 and a decrease in inventory of
    $29,204. Accounts receivable decreased mainly due to improved
    collections from our customers and the timing of payments from
    GE. Amounts due from third party financing companies, including
    GE, decreased to $88,812 at September 30, 2006, compared to
    $150,047 at September 30, 2005. In fiscal 2006 we continued
    to focus on improving our accounts receivable collections. Our
    days sales outstanding on trade accounts receivable improved
    steadily
     year-over-year 
    and our aged accounts receivable balances greater than
    90 days old and greater than 180 days old declined
     year-over-year 
    from 9% and 3%, to 7% and 1%, respectively. Inventory decreased
    and inventory turns improved slightly as a result of centralized
    purchasing and improvements in managing inventory levels more
    closely with sales orders, thereby reducing the need for
    pre-positioned or excess inventory and also from a reduction in
    the number of days between the time a customer places an order
    to when that order is shipped and delivered to the

32

Table of Contents   

customer. However, we do expect inventory to be approximately
    $15,000 higher in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 as a
    result of new product introductions. Other sources of cash
    included a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets
    of $2,704 and an increase in deferred revenue of $3,220.
    Offsetting these sources of cash was a use of cash from
    operating assets and liabilities of $149,247, which includes a
    decrease in accounts payable of $23,594 due to lower spending
    and the timing of the payment of invoices and purchases from our
    vendors and contributions to our defined benefit pension plans
    of $100,210.

Included in the changes above were interest payments of $56,547
    and income tax payments of $155,364 during fiscal 2006.

Investing
    Cash Flows  

During the year ended September 30, 2006, we generated
    $327,558 of cash from investing activities, mainly attributable
    to proceeds of $242,043 from the sales of Kafevend, the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio and the German lease receivables
    sold to GE. In addition, we generated $145,989 from the sale and
    collection of lease receivables, net of new lease additions. We
    also generated proceeds from the sale of equipment on operating
    leases of $21,647. Significant uses of cash during fiscal 2006
    included expenditures for property and equipment and for
    equipment on operating leases of $37,470 and $40,705,
    respectively. Capital expenditures for operating leases
    represent purchases of equipment that are placed on rental with
    our customers.

Financing
    Cash Flows  

During fiscal year 2006, we used $389,805 of cash for financing
    activities, including $281,230 for debt repayments. These
    payments include $142,452 of non-corporate debt, $54,307 for the
    purchase of our Convertible Notes and $84,007 for the tender of
    our 2008 Notes. Other cash uses included a repurchase of
    10,677 shares of our outstanding common stock for $131,190
    (including related fees) and $21,009 for dividends, representing
    $0.16 per common share to shareholders of record. Partially
    offsetting these outflows were inflows from the issuance of
    $23,964 of non-corporate debt by our European leasing
    subsidiaries, the receipt of proceeds from stock option
    exercises of $22,182 and a tax benefit relating to the exercise
    of stock options of $5,696.

Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments   

The following summarizes our significant contractual obligations
    and commitments as of September 30, 2006:

Non-corporate debt excludes the maturity of debt supporting
    certain lease and residual value guarantees of $63,960. This
    debt will not be repaid unless (1) GE is unable to recover
    lease payments from a lessee as a result of our retained
    ownership risk in certain lease receivables, in which case we
    would be required to repurchase the related lease receivable
    (since inception of our relationship with GE in 2004, we have
    not been required to repurchase any lease receivables under this
    scenario), or (2) an IKON service performance failure
    relating to certain sold lease receivables is determined to
    relieve the lessee of its lease payment obligations. We
    anticipate that total repurchases, if any, of these sold lease
    receivables as a result of our service performance will be
    immaterial. Payments on non-corporate debt are generally made
    from collections of our lease receivables. At September 30,
    2006, non-corporate debt (excluding debt supporting certain
    lease and residual value guarantees) was $153,016 and

33

Table of Contents   

lease receivables (excluding the present value and residual
    value of certain lease receivable guarantees of $58,308), net of
    allowances, were $247,076.

Payments of $22,921 for other long-term liabilities in which it
    is not possible to estimate the exact timing of payment are
    included in  Thereafter.  Planned contributions to our
    defined benefit plans have been included in the estimated period
    of payment. All other liabilities related to pension are
    included in  Thereafter  ($26,209) as required
    payments are based on actuarial data that has not yet been
    determined. Payment requirements may change significantly based
    on the outcome or changes of various actuarial assumptions and
    the impact of any future voluntary contributions we may make.

Purchase commitments include unrecorded enforceable agreements
    to purchase goods or services that specify all significant and
    enforceable terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be
    purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the
    approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase commitments
    exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements   

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in
    Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of
     Regulation S-K, 
    except for, certain indemnifications provided to GE, as
    discussed in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. We evaluate estimated losses for such
    indemnifications under Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards ( SFAS ) No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies , as interpreted by FASB Interpretation No.
    ( FIN ) 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and
    Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
    Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others . We consider factors
    such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and
    the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss.
    To date, we have not encountered material losses as a result of
    such obligations and have not accrued any material liabilities
    related to such indemnifications in our financial statements.

Liquidity
    Outlook   

For fiscal 2007, we anticipate that we will generate cash from
    operations from $170,000 to $190,000. These expected results are
    primarily due to the generation of cash from net income. We
    expect a further reduction in accounts receivable of
    approximately $25,000 offset by an expected increase in
    inventory of approximately $15,000 and pension contributions of
    $10,000, including voluntary and involuntary contributions,
    during fiscal 2007. We expect net capital expenditures for the
    year to be between $70,000 and $90,000. In addition, during
    fiscal 2007, we expect to repurchase between $75,000 and
    $100,000 of our common stock and pay dividends of approximately
    $20,000.

We believe that our operating cash flows, together with our
    current cash position and other financing arrangements, will be
    sufficient to finance both short-term and long-term operating
    requirements, including capital expenditures and payment of
    dividends.

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

We have identified below the accounting policies critical to our
    business and results of operations. We determined the critical
    accounting policies by considering accounting policies that
    involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
    Our accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1
    to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8
    of this report. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in
    applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on
    the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our
    accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective
    judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of
    matters that are inherently uncertain.

Revenue
    Recognition  

We install the majority of the equipment we sell. Revenues for
    company-installed copier/printer equipment and technology
    hardware are recognized upon receipt of credit approval, a
    signed sale or lease contract and a

34

Table of Contents   

delivery and acceptance  certificate. The
     delivery and acceptance  certificate confirms that
    the product has been delivered to and accepted by the customer
    under the sale or lease contract. Revenues for
    customer-installed copier/printer equipment and technology
    hardware are recognized upon credit approval, receipt of a
    signed sale or lease contract and delivery. We rarely offer
    equipment warranties in addition to those that are provided by
    the equipment manufacturer. Revenues for sales of supplies are
    recognized at time of shipment, following the placement of an
    order from a customer. Revenues for monthly equipment service
    and facilities management service are recognized in the month in
    which the service is performed. Professional Services revenues
    are recognized as earned. Revenues for other services and
    rentals are recognized in the period performed. For those
    customer leases under which IKON is the equipment lessor
    ( IKON Lease Paper ), the present value of payments
    due under sales-type lease contracts is recorded as revenue when
    products are delivered to and accepted by the customer, and
    finance income is recognized over the related lease term. Fees
    earned under the U.S. Program Agreement, the Canadian Rider
    and our German Program Agreement are recognized as they are
    earned.

The majority of our North American equipment transactions are
    with GE under the U.S. Program Agreement and Canadian
    Rider. Supporting our objective to provide complete solutions to
    our customers, in most cases, we enter into a service agreement
    with the end user when the copier/printer equipment is sold to
    GE. The typical service agreement includes a minimum number of
    copies for a base service fee plus an overage charge for any
    copies in excess of the minimum. For all other equipment
    transactions (not with GE), we often bundle a service contract
    with copier/printer equipment when it is sold to our customer.
    In those cases, revenue for each element of the bundled contract
    is derived from our national price lists for equipment and
    service. The national price lists for equipment include a price
    range between the manufacturers  suggested retail price
    ( MSRP ) and the minimum price for which our sales
    force is permitted to sell equipment without prior approval from
    sales management. The price lists for equipment are updated
    monthly to reflect any supplier-communicated changes in MSRP and
    any changes in the fair value for which equipment is being sold
    to customers. The national price lists for service reflect the
    price of service charged to customers. The price lists for
    service are updated quarterly to reflect new service offerings
    and any changes in the competitive environment affecting the
    fair value for which service is being provided to customers. The
    national price lists, therefore, are representative of the fair
    value of each element of a bundled agreement when it is sold
    unaccompanied by the other elements. Revenue for a bundled
    contract is first allocated to service revenue using the fair
    value per our national price lists. The remaining revenue is
    allocated to equipment revenue and finance income based on a net
    present value calculation utilizing an appropriate interest rate
    that considers the creditworthiness of the customer, term of the
    lease, transaction size and costs of financing. Equipment
    revenue is compared to the national price lists and if it falls
    within the applicable price range, no adjustment is required. If
    the equipment revenue is not within the applicable price range
    per the national price lists, service and equipment revenues are
    proportionately adjusted while holding the interest rate
    constant, so that both service and equipment revenues fall
    within the price range per the national price lists.

As discussed under Item 9A,  Controls and
    Procedures,  during fiscal 2005, management identified
    certain control deficiencies in the Company s internal
    controls over certain revenue and billing processes and, as a
    result, concluded that these deficiencies constituted a material
    weakness (the  Material Weakness ) in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting at
    September 30, 2005 and 2006. In light of the Material
    Weakness, we implemented processes and performed additional
    procedures designed to ensure that the financial statements are
    fairly stated and prepared in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles (see Item 9A,
       Controls and Procedures ).

Billed revenue, accounts receivable and deferred revenue are
    reduced based on estimates derived by a statistically valid
    analysis based on historical data to mitigate the financial
    impact of the Material Weakness. Changes to these estimates
    could have a material adverse or positive effect on our
    financial position and results of operations.

Goodwill  

We evaluate goodwill in accordance with SFAS 142,
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  We perform a
    goodwill impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year or when facts and circumstances indicate goodwill may be
    impaired. We perform the review by comparing the fair value of a
    reporting unit, including

35

Table of Contents   

goodwill, to its carrying value. The impairment review involves
    a number of assumptions and judgments including the
    identification of the appropriate reporting units and the
    calculation of their fair value. We use a combination of
    discounted cash flow projections and terminal values to
    calculate fair value. Our estimate of future cash flows and
    terminal values includes assumptions concerning future operating
    performance and economic conditions that may differ from actual
    future cash flows.

Income
    Taxes  

Income taxes are determined in accordance with SFAS 109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes 
    ( SFAS 109 ), which requires recognition of
    deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the expected
    future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
    consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this
    method, deferred income tax liabilities and assets are
    determined based on the difference between the financial
    statement and tax basis of liabilities and assets using enacted
    tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are
    expected to reverse. SFAS 109 also provides for the
    recognition of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not
    that the assets will be realized in future years. A valuation
    allowance has been established for deferred tax assets for which
    realization is not likely. In assessing the valuation allowance,
    we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and
    feasible tax planning strategies. However, in the event that we
    determine the value of a deferred tax asset has fluctuated from
    its net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset
    would be necessary.

Pension  

We sponsor or have sponsored defined benefit pension plans for
    the majority of our employees. Plan benefits generally are based
    on years of service and compensation. We fund at least the
    minimum amount required by government regulations.

All U.S. employees hired before July 1, 2004 were
    eligible to participate in the U.S. tax-qualified defined
    benefit pension plan covering active employees (together with
    the Directors  Retirement Plan and the Supplemental
    Executive Retirement Plan identified as the
     U.S. Plans ). Effective September 30, 2005,
    the U.S. Plans were frozen, other than the Directors 
    Retirement Plan, which was discontinued in 1997 and only
    provides benefits to three retired Directors. Accordingly,
    participants no longer accrue benefits under these plans. As a
    result of the freezing of the U.S. Plans, we recorded a
    curtailment charge of $2,852 during the three months ended
    December 31, 2005. Additionally, effective
    December 31, 2005, we froze one of our
     non-U.S. Plans. 
    As a result of that freeze, we recorded a curtailment charge of
    $798 during the three months ended March 31, 2006.

Accounting for pensions requires the use of estimates and
    assumptions regarding numerous factors, including discount
    rates, rates of return on plan assets, compensation increases,
    mortality and employee turnover. Independent actuaries, in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America, perform the required calculations to
    determine expense and liabilities for pension benefits. Actual
    results that differ from our actuarial assumptions are generally
    accumulated and amortized over future periods.

Pension
    Assumptions  

Assumptions used to determine periodic pension costs for the
    defined benefit pension plans were:

36

Table of Contents   

Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of the end
    of each fiscal year for the defined benefit pension plans were:

The fiscal year 2006 assumptions used to determine net periodic
    benefit costs differed from the fiscal year 2005 assumptions
    used to determine the benefit obligations for the defined
    benefit pension plans as a result of the curtailment of the U.S.
    and one of our
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans in fiscal 2006.

The discount rate is determined at each measurement date,
    June 30, 2006, after consideration of numerous factors and
    indices. In particular, and with the assistance of our financial
    consultants, we review the following high quality, fixed income
    indices, as we believe these indices reflect the duration of the
    liabilities under the U.S. Plans:

Moody s AA bond averages plus a spread to approximate the
    duration of our plan liabilities;

the zero coupon Treasury bond rates; and

the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve.

Prior to fiscal 2005, the discount rate for the U.S. Plans
    was based on the Moody s AA bond index. Similar processes
    are followed to determine the discount rate for the
     non-U.S. Plans. 
    The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption is
    reviewed at each measurement date based on the pension
    plans  investments and investment policies, and an analysis
    of the expected and historical returns of the capital markets,
    adjusted for current interest rates, as appropriate. For fiscal
    2006, the asset allocation policy for the
    U.S. tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan provided
    for 50% of the Plan s assets to be invested in equity
    securities and 50% to be invested in fixed income securities. On
    November 1, 2006, the policy was revised to provide for a
    more conservative asset allocation, in order to better match the
    Plan s assets with the benefit obligations these assets are
    intended to fund. As a result, during November 2006, the assets
    of the U.S. tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan were
    reallocated such that approximately 70% are now invested in
    fixed income securities, and approximately 30% remain invested
    in equity securities. In determining fiscal 2007 net
    periodic pension expense for the U.S. Plans, the expected
    long-term rate of return was decreased to 7.25%.

Within any given fiscal year, significant differences may arise
    between the actual return and the expected return on plan
    assets. The value of plan assets, used in the calculation of
    pension expense, is determined on a calculated method that
    recognizes 25% of the difference between the actual fair value
    of assets and the expected calculated method. Gains and losses
    resulting from differences between actual experience and the
    assumptions are determined at each measurement date. For the
    U.S. Plans, gains and losses are amortized over
    15 years. For the
     non-U.S. Plans, 
    if the net gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of plan
    assets or liabilities, a portion is amortized into earnings in
    the following fiscal year.

The rate of increase in compensation levels is reviewed at each
    measurement date based on the long-term estimate of yearly
    compensation level increases given to employees.

Estimated sensitivities to the net periodic pension cost for the
    U.S. pension plans are as follows:

a 25 basis point change in the discount rates from those
    used would have changed fiscal 2006 pension expense by
    approximately $2,547;

a 25 basis point change in the expected rates of return
    from those used would have changed fiscal 2006 pension expense
    by approximately $1,034; and

a 25 basis point change in compensation levels from those
    used would have no impact on fiscal 2006 pension expense as a
    result of the freeze of the U.S. pension plans.

37

Table of Contents   

A sensitivity analysis on the
     non-U.S. Plans 
    has not been presented herein as the impact of such analysis
    would have an immaterial impact to net periodic pension cost.

Financial
    Impact of Pensions  

Contributions to the U.S. Plans were $86,878 and $40,392,
    during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. These contributions
    included voluntary contributions of $85,000 and $31,200 during
    fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively, in anticipation of
    future funding requirements. Contributions to
     non-U.S. Plans 
    were $13,332 and $3,716, during fiscal 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

In fiscal 2007, we will contribute approximately $1,425 and
    $2,528 to our U.S. and
     non-U.S. Plans, 
    respectively, in accordance with our funding requirements. We
    also expect to make additional voluntary contributions during
    fiscal 2007.

Net periodic pension expense was $27,603 in fiscal 2006, $43,079
    in fiscal 2005 and $51,065 in fiscal 2004. The decrease in
    fiscal 2006 pension expense compared to fiscal 2005 pension
    expense was primarily due to the curtailment of the U.S. and one
    of our
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans in fiscal 2006, the change in the weighted
    average discount rate assumption and from the impact of expected
    returns associated with voluntary contributions to the
    U.S. Plans. The decrease in fiscal 2005 pension expense
    compared to fiscal 2004 pension expense was primarily due to the
    increase in the discount rates, the impact of restricting
    entrance into the U.S. Plans for employees hired on or
    after July 1, 2004, and the impact of expected returns
    associated with a $75,000 voluntary contribution to the
    U.S. Plans during fiscal 2004.

As of September 30, 2006, we had unrecognized net actuarial
    losses of $47,889 related to our U.S. Plans and $23,150
    related to our
     non-U.S. Plans. 
    Additionally, we had unrecognized prior service costs of $2,628.
    These unrecognized losses are primarily the result of a decrease
    in the discount rates over the last five years. At
    September 30, 2006, our U.S. and
     non-U.S. plans 
    were under funded by $17,264 and $15,506, respectively, compared
    to an under funded position of $312,990 and $34,276,
    respectively as of September 30, 2005. The
     year-over-year 
    improvement is a result of the freeze of the U.S. and one of our
    non-U.S Plans, changes in interest rates and the large voluntary
    contributions made during fiscal 2006. Even though our under
    funded position was significantly improved as of
    September 30, 2006, a change in future interest rates may
    have a material adverse or positive impact on the future funded
    status of the Plans.

When the fair value of pension plan assets is less than the
    accumulated benefit obligation, an additional minimum liability
    is recorded in other comprehensive income within
    Shareholders  Equity. As of September 30, 2006 and
    2005, Shareholders  Equity includes a minimum liability,
    net of tax, of $41,291 and $127,704, respectively.

Effective September 30, 2005, the U.S. Plans were
    frozen and as a result, participants will no longer accrue
    benefits under these plans. Accordingly, the projected benefit
    obligation and the accumulated obligation of the U.S. Plans
    will be the same in future periods.

See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, included in Item 8 of this report, for
    additional information on our pension plans.

RESTRUCTURING  

During fiscal 2005, we took several actions to reduce costs,
    increase productivity and improve operating income. These
    actions involved our operations in BDS, LDS, our North American
    field organization, our corporate staff and our operating
    subsidiary in Mexico.

Business
    Document Services   

During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we exited BDS, which
    provided off-site document management solutions, including
    digital print and fulfillment services. This exit was achieved
    by the closure or sale of 11 North American operating sites. As
    of September 30, 2005, all of the 11 BDS sites were closed
    or sold. Proceeds received from the sale of two sites were not
    material. As a result of this exit, the results of operations
    and cash flows of BDS

38

Table of Contents   

are classified as discontinued operations (see Note 16 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in
    Item 8 of this report, for further information).

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, pre-tax
    restructuring charges related to BDS were $444, and no
    additional asset impairment charges were incurred. For the
    fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, pre-tax restructuring
    and asset impairment charges related to BDS were $9,267 and
    $1,331, respectively. The pre-tax components of the
    restructuring, asset impairment charges and other costs for
    fiscal 2006 and 2005 are as follows:

The restructuring charge includes severance for the termination
    of 302 employees during fiscal 2005, and the asset impairment
    charge represents fixed asset write-offs. In addition, during
    fiscal 2005, we wrote-down inventories and other assets by $610
    and recorded additional reserves for accounts receivable of
    $281, which are included in  other non-restructuring
    items  in the table above. During fiscal 2006, the
    additional reserves for accounts receivable were decreased by
    $241. These charges are included within discontinued operations.

Legal
    Document Services   

LDS provides off-site document management solutions for the
    legal industry, including document imaging, coding and
    conversion services, legal graphics and electronic discovery.
    During fiscal 2005, we closed 16 of 82 LDS sites in North
    America to provide cost flexibility and savings.

As a result of the closure of these sites, we recorded a pre-tax
    restructuring charge of $46 for the fiscal year ended
    September 30, 2006. For the fiscal year ended
    September 30, 2005, pre-tax restructuring and asset
    impairment charges related to LDS were $2,094 and $229,
    respectively. The pre-tax components of the restructuring, asset
    impairment charges and other costs for fiscal 2006 and 2005 are
    as follows:

The restructuring charge includes severance for the termination
    of 157 employees during fiscal 2005. The asset impairment charge
    represents fixed asset write-offs. In addition, during fiscal
    2005, we wrote-down inventories and other assets by $44 and
    recorded additional reserves for accounts receivable of $68,
    which are included in  other non-restructuring items 
    in the table above. During fiscal 2006, reserves for accounts
    receivable were decreased by $126.

39

Table of Contents   

Field
    Organization and Corporate Staff Reduction   

During fiscal 2005, we reorganized our field structure in North
    America to serve our customers in a more cost-effective manner,
    while maximizing sales potential. To achieve this, we expanded
    geographic coverage under certain area vice presidents, allowing
    us to reduce the number of our marketplaces. By streamlining our
    field leadership structure and reducing other corporate staff,
    we expect to save costs while maintaining our sales capabilities
    and services provided to customers. As a result of these
    actions, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $8,176
    representing severance for 381 employees during the fiscal year
    ended September 30, 2005. In addition, we recorded asset
    impairments representing fixed asset write-offs in the amount of
    $112 during fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2006, we recorded a
    pre-tax restructuring benefit of $368 as a result of a revision
    to our original estimate based on more recent information that
    we did not have at the time the reserve was established.

Summarized
    Restructuring Activity  

The pre-tax components of the restructuring and asset impairment
    charges for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 are as follows:

We calculated the asset impairment charges in accordance with
    SFAS 144. The proceeds received for sites sold or held for
    sale were not sufficient to cover the fixed asset balances and,
    as such, those balances were written off. Fixed assets
    associated with closed sites were written-off.

All restructuring costs were incurred within INA and Corporate.

The following presents a reconciliation of the restructuring
    charges in fiscal 2005 to the accrual balance remaining at
    September 30, 2006, which is included in other accrued
    expenses on the consolidated balance sheets:

*

The adjustments in the table above
    are the result of revising our estimates based on more recent
    information, which we did not have at the time the reserve was
    established. The adjustments made during fiscal 2006 were not
    material to our consolidated financial statements.

The year ended September 30, 2006 included certain charges
    related to the restructuring of BDS, which is included as a
    discontinued operation (discussed at Note 16 to the
    consolidated financial statements, included in

40

Table of Contents   

Item 8 of this report). The restructuring (benefit) charge
    for continuing operations was $(322) and $10,543 for fiscal 2006
    and 2005, respectively.

The projected payments of the remaining balances of the charge,
    by fiscal year, are as follows:

All contractual commitment amounts related to leases are shown
    net of projected sublease income. Projected sublease income was
    $527 at September 30, 2006. To the extent that sublease
    income cannot be realized, changes to the restructuring charges
    will be incurred in each period in which sublease income is not
    received.

The employees affected by the charge were as follows:

The sites affected by the charge were as follows:

During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, management determined
    that one of the 17 LDS sites initially approved for closing
    would remain in operation. As such, there were 16 sites affected
    and closed by the charge as of September 30, 2005. As of
    September 30, 2005, there were no additional employees to
    be terminated and there were no remaining sites to be closed
    related to the actions described above. The charges for
    contractual commitments relate to real estate lease contracts
    for certain sites that we have exited but are required to make
    payments over the balance of the lease term. The charges for
    contract termination represent costs incurred to immediately
    terminate contracts.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Interest
    Rate Risk  

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates, if
    any, relates primarily to our invested cash balances and our
    non-corporate debt under our revolving asset securitization
    conduit financing agreement, which is used primarily to fund the
    lease receivables portfolio in the United Kingdom. This debt is
    current and at a variable rate. Our interest rate exposure is
    capped at 7.0% via an interest rate cap. As of
    September 30, 2006, we have essentially no exposure to
    market risk for changes in interest rates associated with our
    corporate long-term debt because all of our corporate long-term
    debt obligations are at fixed interest rates as shown below. We
    primarily enter into debt obligations to support general
    corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and working
    capital needs. The carrying amounts for cash and cash
    equivalents, accounts receivable and notes payable reported in
    the consolidated balance sheets approximate fair value.

41

Table of Contents   

The table below presents principal amounts and related average
    interest rates by fiscal year of maturity for our long-term debt
    obligations, excluding $63,960 of debt supporting certain lease
    and residual value guarantees at September 30, 2006:

The carrying amounts and fair value of our financial
    instruments, excluding $63,960 and $58,889 of debt supporting
    certain lease and residual value guarantees, at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are as follows:

During the year ended September 30, 2006, our leased-backed
    notes were repaid or sold and the interest rate swap agreements
    were terminated or settled. The following table presents, as of
    September 30, 2005, information regarding the interest rate
    swap agreements to which we were a party: (i) the notional
    amount; (ii) the fixed interest rate payable by us;
    (iii) the variable interest rate payable to us by the
    counterparty under the agreement; (iv) the fair value of
    the instrument; and (v) the maturity date of the agreement.

Foreign
    Exchange Risk  

We have various
     non-U.S. operating 
    locations that expose us to foreign currency exchange risk.
    Foreign denominated intercompany debt borrowed in one currency
    and repaid in another may be fixed via currency swap agreements.
    As of September 30, 2006 and 2005 we had no such
    arrangements of this nature in place.

42

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

of IKON Office Solutions, Inc.

We have completed integrated audits of IKON Office Solutions,
    Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and
    of its internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006, and an audit of its 2004 consolidated
    financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our
    opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated
    financial statements and financial statement schedule  

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in
    all material respects, the financial position of IKON Office
    Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company )
    at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended September 30, 2006 in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
    schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2)
    presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
    forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
    consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
    and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of
    the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express
    an opinion on these financial statements and the financial
    statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits
    of these statements in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements
    includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
    amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
    the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 11 the Company adopted FASB Statement
    No. 123(R)  Share-Based Payment  during the year
    ended September 30, 2005 to record the impact of
    stock-based compensation.

Internal
    control over financial reporting  

Also, we have audited management s assessment, included in
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that IKON Office
    Solutions, Inc. did not maintain effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, because the
    Company did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy
    and validity of revenue, accounts receivable and deferred
    revenue, based on criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express
    opinions on management s assessment and on the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
    require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
    assurance about whether effective internal control over
    financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
    audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
    obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
    reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and
    evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
    control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
    provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in

43

Table of Contents   

accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
    company s internal control over financial reporting
    includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
    the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
    accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
    of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
    assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
    preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
    expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
    with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
    and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
    or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
    disposition of the company s assets that could have a
    material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of
    control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote
    likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
    financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The
    following material weakness has been identified and included in
    management s assessment. As of September 30, 2006 the
    Company did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy
    and validity of revenue, accounts receivable and deferred
    revenue. Specifically, the Company s controls over
    (i) the timely issuance of invoice adjustments,
    (ii) the initiation of customer master records and
    contracts to ensure consistent billing of periodic charges,
    (iii) the collection of accurate meter readings from
    equipment to ensure the accurate generation of customer invoices
    and (iv) the segregation of incompatible duties within the
    billing function were deficient. Because as of
    September 30, 2006, these control deficiencies could result
    in a misstatement of the aforementioned accounts that would
    result in a material misstatement to the Company s interim
    or annual consolidated financial statements that would not be
    prevented or detected, management has determined that these
    control deficiencies, in the aggregate, constitute a material
    weakness. This material weakness was considered in determining
    the nature, timing and extent of audit tests applied in our
    audit of the September 30, 2006 consolidated financial
    statements, and our opinion regarding the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting does
    not affect our opinion on those consolidated financial
    statements.

In our opinion, management s assessment that IKON Office
    Solutions, Inc. did not maintain effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly
    stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established
    in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework
     issued by the COSO. Also, in our opinion, because of the
    effect of the material weakness described above on the
    achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, IKON
    Office Solutions, Inc. has not maintained effective internal
    control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
    based on the criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

December 1, 2006

44

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

45

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS  

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

46

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

47

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY  

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

48

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

IKON Office Solutions, Inc. ( IKON  or the
     Company ) delivers integrated document management
    systems and solutions, enabling customers to improve document
    workflow and increase efficiency. We offer financing in North
    America through a program agreement (the  U.S. Program
    Agreement ) with General Electric Capital Corporation
    ( GE ) in the U.S., and a rider to the
    U.S. Program Agreement (the  Canadian Rider )
    with GE in Canada. We entered into the U.S. Program
    Agreement and Canadian Rider in 2004 as part of the sale of
    certain assets and liabilities of our U.S. leasing business
    (the  U.S. Transaction ) and our Canadian lease
    portfolio (the  Canadian Transaction ) to GE in the
    U.S. and Canada, respectively. We sold additional assets, namely
    retained lease receivables (the  U.S. Retained
    Portfolio ), to GE as of April 1, 2006 (the
     U.S. Retained Portfolio Sale  and, together with
    the U.S. Program Agreement, the Canadian Rider and the
    U.S. Transaction, the  Transactions ) and amended
    the U.S. Program Agreement to reflect such sale. We also
    sold German lease receivables to GE as of June 8, 2006 and
    entered into a five year program agreement (the  German
    Program Agreement ) designating GE as our preferred lease
    financing source in Germany. References herein to
     we,   us,   our, 
     IKON  or the  Company  refer to IKON Office
    Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context
    specifically requires otherwise. All dollar and share amounts
    are in thousands, except per share data or as otherwise noted.

1.    

SIGNIFICANT
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Basis
    of Presentation   

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company and its subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and
    transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America requires management to make estimates
    and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated
    financial statements and notes. Actual results could differ from
    those estimates and assumptions.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We install the majority of the equipment we sell. Revenues for
    company-installed copier/printer equipment and technology
    hardware, included in net sales, are recognized upon receipt of
    credit approval, a signed sale or lease contract and a
     delivery and acceptance  certificate. The
     delivery and acceptance  certificate confirms that
    the product has been delivered to and accepted by the customer
    under the sales or lease contract. Revenues for
    customer-installed copier/printer equipment and technology
    hardware, included in equipment revenues, are recognized upon
    credit approval, receipt of a signed sale or lease contract and
    delivery. Generally, we do not offer any equipment warranties in
    addition to those that are provided by the equipment
    manufacturer. Revenues for sales of supplies are recognized at
    time of shipment, following the placement of an order from a
    customer. Revenues for monthly equipment service and facilities
    management service are recognized in the month in which the
    service is performed. Professional Services revenues are
    recognized as earned. Revenues for other services and rentals
    are recognized in the period performed. For those customer
    leases under which IKON is the equipment lessor ( IKON
    Lease Paper ), the present value of payments due under
    sales-type lease contracts is recorded as revenue within
    equipment revenues when products are delivered to and accepted
    by the customer, and finance income is recognized over the
    related lease term. Fees earned under the U.S. Program
    Agreement and the Canadian Rider are recognized as they are
    earned (see Note 13).

The majority of our North American equipment transactions are
    with GE under the U.S. Program Agreement and Canadian
    Rider. Supporting our objective to provide complete solutions to
    our customers, in most cases, we enter into a service agreement
    with the end user when the copier/printer equipment is sold to
    GE.

The typical service agreement includes a minimum number of
    copies for a base service fee plus an overage charge for any
    copies in excess of the minimum. For all other equipment
    transactions (not with GE), we often

49

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

bundle a service contract with copier/printer equipment when it
    is sold to our customer. In those cases, revenue for each
    element of the bundled contract is derived from our national
    price lists for equipment and service. The national price lists
    for equipment include a price range between the
    manufacturers  suggested retail price ( MSRP )
    and the minimum price for which our sales force is permitted to
    sell equipment without prior approval from sales management. The
    price lists for equipment are updated monthly to reflect any
    supplier-communicated changes in MSRP and any changes in the
    fair value for which equipment is being sold to customers. The
    national price lists for service reflect the price of service
    charged to customers. The price lists for service are updated
    quarterly to reflect new service offerings and any changes in
    the competitive environment affecting the fair value for which
    service is being provided to customers. The national price
    lists, therefore, are representative of the fair value of each
    element of a bundled agreement when it is sold unaccompanied by
    the other elements. Revenue for a bundled contract is first
    allocated to service revenue using the fair value per our
    national price lists. The remaining revenue is allocated to
    equipment revenue and finance income based on a net present
    value calculation utilizing an appropriate interest rate that
    considers the creditworthiness of the customer, term of the
    lease, transaction size and costs of financing. Equipment
    revenue is compared to the national price lists and if it falls
    within the applicable price range, no adjustment is required. If
    the equipment revenue is not within the applicable price range,
    service and equipment revenues are proportionately adjusted
    while holding the interest rate constant, so that both service
    and equipment revenues fall within the price range per the
    national price lists.

Billed revenue, accounts receivable and deferred revenue are
    reduced based on estimates derived by a statistically valid
    analysis based on historical data to mitigate the financial
    impact of the Material Weakness described in Item 9A of
    this report. Changes to these estimates could have a material
    effect on our financial position and results of operations.

Advertising   

Advertising costs are expensed the first time the advertisement
    is run. Advertising expense was $2,116, $3,116 and $5,863 for
    fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively.

Income
    Taxes   

Income taxes are determined in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) 109
     Accounting for Income Taxes 
    ( SFAS 109 ), which requires recognition of
    deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the expected
    future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
    consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this
    method, deferred income tax liabilities and assets are
    determined based on the difference between the financial
    statement and tax basis of liabilities and assets using enacted
    tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are
    expected to reverse. SFAS 109 also provides for the
    recognition of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not
    that the assets will be realized in future years. A valuation
    allowance has been established to reduce deferred taxes to the
    amount that is more likely than not to be realized due to items
    discussed in Note 15.

Sales
    Taxes   

We present taxes assessed by a governmental authority including
    sales, use, value added and excise taxes on a net basis and
    therefore the presentation of these taxes is excluded from our
    revenues and is shown as a liability on our balance sheet until
    remitted to the taxing authorities.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

We consider all highly liquid investments with original
    maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase to be
    cash equivalents.

50

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Restricted
    Cash   

Restricted cash primarily represented the cash that had been
    collected on the leases that were pledged as collateral for
    lease-backed notes. This cash was segregated within two business
    days into a trust account and the cash was used to pay the
    principal and interest on lease-backed notes as well as any
    associated administrative expenses. The level of restricted cash
    was impacted from one period to the next by the volume of the
    leases pledged as collateral on the lease-backed notes and
    timing of collections on such leases.

Book
    Overdrafts   

We had $6,775 and $17,107 of book overdrafts (outstanding checks
    on zero balance disbursement bank accounts that are funded from
    an investment account maintained with another financial
    institution upon presentation for payment) included within our
    accounts payable balance at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The changes in these book overdrafts are included
    as a component of cash flows from operations in our consolidated
    statements of cash flows.

Supplier
    Allowances   

We receive allowances from our suppliers through a variety of
    programs and arrangements. Supplier rebates and other
    miscellaneous incentives are earned based on purchases or
    product sales and are accrued ratably over the purchase of the
    related product, but only if it is probable that the required
    volume levels will be reached. These monies are recorded as a
    reduction of inventories and are recognized as a reduction to
    cost of sales as the related inventories are sold. The
    Company s vendor funding arrangements do not provide for
    any reimbursement arrangements that are for specific,
    incremental, identifiable costs that are permitted under
    Emerging Issues Task Force Issue ( EITF )
     No. 02-16, 
     Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Cash
    Consideration Received from a Vendor  for the funding to be
    recorded as a reduction to advertising or other selling and
    administrative expenses.

Sale
    of Lease Receivables   

From
     time-to-time, 
    we sell lease receivables to GE and other syndicators (the
     Purchasers ). The lease receivables are removed from
    our balance sheet at the time they are sold. Sales and transfers
    that do not meet the criteria for surrender of control are
    accounted for as borrowings. Lease receivables are considered
    sold when they are transferred beyond the reach of our
    creditors, the Purchasers have the right to pledge or exchange
    the assets and we have surrendered control over the rights and
    obligations of the lease receivables.

Inventories   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using the
    average cost or specific identification methods and consist of
    finished goods available for sale. We write down our inventory
    for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to
    the difference between the cost of inventory and estimated
    market value based upon assumptions about future demand and
    market conditions. If actual market conditions are less
    favorable than those anticipated, inventory adjustments may be
    required.

Long-Lived
    Assets   

Property and equipment are recorded at cost. The cost and
    related accumulated depreciation of assets sold, retired or
    otherwise disposed of are removed from the respective accounts
    and any resulting gains or losses are

51

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

included in the consolidated statements of income. Depreciation
    is computed for financial reporting purposes using the
    straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
    related assets as follows:

Equipment on operating leases

1-5 years

Production equipment

3-5 years

Furniture and office equipment

3-7 years

Capitalized software

3-10 years 

Leasehold improvements

shorter of the asset life or term
    of lease

Buildings

20 years

Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations; replacements
    and betterments are capitalized. We capitalize certain costs,
    such as software coding, installation and testing, that are
    incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal use
    computer software in accordance with Statement of Position 98-1,
     Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
    Obtained for Internal Use.  Depreciation expense related to
    capitalized software was $17,024, $16,922 and $19,402 in fiscal
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The fair value of asset retirement obligations are recognized in
    the period in which they are incurred if a reasonable estimate
    of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement costs
    are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived
    asset and subsequently allocated to expense over the
    assets  future life. At September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    we had no significant asset retirement obligations.

In the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the
    carrying value of long-lived assets may be impaired, we perform
    a recoverability evaluation. If the evaluation indicates that
    the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable from our
    undiscounted cash flows, then an impairment loss is measured by
    comparing the carrying amount of the asset to its fair value.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment utilizing a
    two-step method for determining goodwill impairment. In the
    first step, we determine the fair value of the reporting unit
    using expected future discounted cash flows and estimated
    terminal values. If the net book value of the reporting unit
    exceeds the fair value, we would then perform the second step of
    the impairment test which requires allocation of the reporting
    unit s fair value of all of its assets and liabilities in a
    manner similar to a purchase price allocation, with any residual
    fair value being allocated to goodwill. The fair value of the
    goodwill is then compared to the carrying amount to determine
    impairment. An impairment charge will be recognized only when
    the implied fair value of a reporting unit, including goodwill,
    is less than its carrying amount.

Environmental
    Liabilities   

Environmental expenditures that pertain to current operations or
    to future revenues are expensed or capitalized consistent with
    our capitalization policy for property and equipment.
    Expenditures that result from the remediation of an existing
    condition caused by past operations that do not contribute to
    current or future revenues are expensed. Liabilities are
    recognized for remedial activities, based on management s
    best estimate of aggregate environmental exposure. Recoveries of
    expenditures are recognized as receivables when they are
    estimable and probable. Estimated liabilities are not discounted
    to present value. See Note 8.

Shipping
    and Handling Fees   

Shipping and handling fees that are collected from our customers
    in connection with our sales are recorded as revenue. The costs
    incurred with respect to shipping and handling are recorded as
    cost of sales.

52

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Cost
    of Revenues and Selling and Administrative
    Expenses   

The following illustrates the primary costs classified in each
    major expense category:

Cost of
    Revenues  

Includes the actual cost of merchandise sold and services
    performed, and the majority of costs associated with our
    distribution network including purchasing and receiving costs,
    inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs and
    the costs of moving, storing and delivering finished product to
    our customers. Also included in cost of revenues are vendor
    allowances, inventory shrinkage and obsolescence. We do exclude
    some costs associated with our distribution network from cost of
    revenues and classify them as selling and administrative
    expenses. These costs primarily relate to third party logistics
    for parts and supplies, as well as compensation and benefit
    costs for IKON employed delivery drivers. We believe these
    costs, which approximate 1% of our total cost of revenues, are
    not significant when compared to the total costs associated with
    our distribution network, but some companies may include these
    types of costs in cost of revenues, while others like us may
    exclude a portion of them or possibly other more significant
    costs associated with their distribution network from their
    gross margins. Therefore, our gross margins may not be directly
    comparable to others.

Selling
    and Administrative  

Includes costs associated with compensation and benefits
    (including share-based payments), commissions, insurance,
    depreciation, facilities, information technology and
    professional and legal fees.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

Assets and liabilities of
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    are translated into U.S. dollars at fiscal year-end
    exchange rates. Income and expense items are translated at
    average exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. The
    resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of
    shareholders  equity. Gains and losses from foreign
    currency transactions are included in net income.

Financial
    Instruments   

We account for derivatives in accordance with SFAS 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities.  This standard, as amended, requires that all
    derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their
    fair value and that changes in fair value be recorded each
    period in current earnings or comprehensive income (see
    Note 18).

Derivative financial instruments are utilized to reduce foreign
    currency and interest rate risk. We do not enter into financial
    instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Interest rate
    swap agreements are used as part of our program to manage the
    fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio
    and related overall cost of borrowing. The interest rate swap
    agreements involve the periodic exchange of payments without the
    exchange of the notional amount upon which the payments are
    based. The related amount payable to, or receivable from,
    counterparties is included as an adjustment to accrued interest
    in other accrued expenses. The interest rate swap agreements are
    designated as hedges. Currency swap agreements are used to
    manage exposure relating to certain intercompany debt
    denominated in one foreign currency that will be repaid in
    another foreign currency. Currency swap agreements are
    designated as hedges of firm commitments to pay interest and
    principal on debt, which would otherwise expose us to foreign
    currency risk. Currency translation gains and losses on the
    principal swapped are offset by corresponding translation gains
    and losses on the related foreign denominated assets. Gains and
    losses on terminations of interest rate and currency swap
    agreements are deferred as an adjustment to the carrying amount
    of the outstanding obligation and amortized as an adjustment to
    interest expense related to the obligation over the remaining
    term of the original contract life of the terminated swap
    agreement. In the event of early extinguishment

53

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

of the obligation, any realized or unrealized gain or loss from
    the swap would be recognized in the consolidated statements of
    income at the time of extinguishment.

Reclassifications   

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to
    the current year presentation.

Pending
    Accounting Changes   

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair
    Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ).
    SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles
    and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
    Accordingly, SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value
    measurements but for some entities the application of
    SFAS 157 will change current practice. SFAS 157 is
    effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after November 5, 2007. Therefore this standard
    will not be effective for the Company until our fiscal year
    beginning October 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the
    impact of SFAS 157, but we do not expect a material impact
    from the adoption of SFAS 157 on our consolidated financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows.

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statements of Financial
    Accounting Standard No. 158,  Employers 
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans  ( SFAS 158 ). SFAS 158 requires
    employers to recognize on their balance sheets the funded status
    of pension and other postretirement benefit plans. In addition,
    employers will recognize actuarial gains and losses, prior
    service cost and unrecognized transition amounts as a component
    of accumulated other comprehensive income. Furthermore,
    SFAS 158 will also require fiscal year end measurements of
    plan assets and benefit obligations, eliminating the use of
    earlier measurement dates currently permissible. We are
    currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 158, but we do not
    expect a material impact from the adoption of this standard on
    our consolidated financial position, results of operations or
    cash flows, as a result of the freeze of our U.S. and one of our
     non-U.S. plans. 
    The disclosure requirements for SFAS 158 are effective as
    of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15,
    2006. Therefore this standard will not be effective for the
    Company until our fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. The
    requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of
    the date of the fiscal year end statement of financial position
    is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
    2008. Therefore this part of the standard will not be effective
    for the Company until our fiscal year ended September 30,
    2009.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission s
    Office ( SEC ) announced Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 108 ( SAB 108 ).
    SAB 108 addresses how to quantify financial statement
    errors that arose in prior periods for purposes of assessing
    their materiality in the current period. It requires analysis of
    misstatements using both an income statement (rollover) approach
    and a balance sheet (iron curtain) approach in assessing
    materiality. It clarifies that immaterial financial statement
    errors in a prior SEC filing can be corrected in subsequent
    filings without the need to amend the prior filing. In addition,
    SAB 108 provides transitional relief for correcting errors
    that would have been considered immaterial before its issuance.
    The adoption of SAB 108 is not expected to have an impact
    on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or
    cash flows.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48
    ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes  which prescribes a recognition measurement
    and threshold process for recording in the consolidated
    financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected
    to be taken in a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides
    guidance on the derecognition, classification, accounting in
    interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax
    positions. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2006. We will be required to
    adopt this interpretation in our first quarter of fiscal 2008.
    We are in the process of determining the impact, if any, the
    adoption of FIN 48 will have on our consolidated financial
    statements and related disclosures.

54

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

2.    

ACCOUNTS
    RECEIVABLE  

Trade accounts receivables are recorded when revenue is
    recognized or deferred in accordance with our revenue
    recognition policy discussed in Note 1. The allowance for
    doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable
    credit losses in our existing accounts receivable balance based
    on our historical experience, in addition to any credit matters
    we are aware of with specific customers. The allowance is
    reviewed monthly to ensure that there is a sufficient reserve to
    cover any potential write-offs. Account balances are charged off
    against the allowance when we feel it is probable the receivable
    will not be collected. Accounts receivable consisted of the
    following at September 30:

Amounts unbilled to GE represent equipment sales in which
    revenue recognition requirements have been achieved, however,
    funding documentation is in transit and has not been received by
    GE.

3.    

LEASE
    RECEIVABLES  

Our captive finance subsidiaries in the U.K. are engaged in
    purchasing office equipment and leasing the equipment to
    customers under direct financing leases.

Components of lease receivables, net, are as follows:

The lease default balances at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    relate to our European lease portfolio.

As discussed in Note 13, we sold $56,702 of our German
    lease receivables and $326,880 of our U.S. Retained
    Portfolio lease receivables to GE during fiscal 2006.

Pursuant to our lease programs with GE in North America, we
    generally sell equipment to GE, who in turn leases the equipment
    to the end user. However, to a lesser extent, we sell customer
    lease receivables to GE. We do not expect to retain interests in
    these assets. Gains or losses on the sale of these lease
    receivables depend in part on the previous carrying amount of
    the financial assets involved in the transfer. We estimate fair
    value based on the

55

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

present value of future expected cash flows using
    management s best estimates. As these same assumptions are
    used in recording the lease receivables, and sale of the lease
    receivables occurs shortly thereafter, management anticipates
    that in most instances, book value is expected to approximate
    fair value.

During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we sold $201,687 and $249,083,
    respectively, of our lease receivables to GE and other
    syndicators. These amounts do not include the lease receivables
    sold in connection with the German and U.S. Retained
    Portfolio transactions with GE discussed above and in
    Note 13. No material gain or loss resulted from these
    transactions.

At September 30, 2006, future minimum payments to be
    received under direct financing leases for each of the
    succeeding fiscal years are as follows: 2007  
    $93,698; 2008   $73,345; 2009   $48,930;
    2010   $27,529; 2011   $9,094; and
    thereafter   $281.

IKON Capital PLC, our leasing subsidiary in the United Kingdom,
    maintains a  95,000 (approximately $177,869 at
    September 30, 2006) revolving asset securitization
    conduit financing agreement (the  U.K. Conduit ). The
    U.K. Conduit, which allows us to receive up to  95,000 of
    cash, was structured as a revolving asset securitization
    agreement so that as collections reduce previously pledged or
    transferred interests in the leases, additional leases can be
    pledged or transferred up to the above amount. As of
    September 30, 2006, we pledged or transferred  95,992
    in financing lease receivables as collateral for the outstanding
    U.K. Conduit balance of  81,600. As of September 30,
    2005, we pledged or transferred  88,893 in financing lease
    receivables as collateral for the outstanding U.K. Conduit
    balance of  70,000.

As of September 30, 2006, IKON Capital PLC had  13,400
    available under the U.K. Conduit. The U.K. Conduit names IKON
    Capital PLC as the initial servicer of the lease portfolios.

Assets acquired under capital leases are included in property
    and equipment in the amount of $1,429 and $2,538 in fiscal 2006,
    and 2005, respectively, and the related amounts of accumulated
    amortization are $484 and $1,807 in fiscal 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Related obligations are in long-term debt and
    related amortization is included in depreciation expense.

At September 30, 2006, future minimum lease payments under
    noncancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms
    of more than one year for each of the succeeding fiscal years
    are as follows: 2007   $105,060; 2008  
    $74,592; 2009   $48,983; 2010   $34,134;
    2011   $23,153; and thereafter   $34,781.

Total rental expense was $72,972, $83,413 and $93,823 in fiscal
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

5.    

PROPERTY
    AND EQUIPMENT  

Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of:

56

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Fully depreciated assets of $132,557 and $198,952 at
    September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
    respectively, were excluded from the balances noted above.

Goodwill associated with our reporting segments was:

Changes in the goodwill balance since September 30, 2005
    are attributable mainly to foreign currency translation
    adjustments and the sale of Kafevend (discussed in Note 13).

During fiscal 2006, we made three small acquisitions in Germany
    for approximately $7,000. Both individually and in the
    aggregate, we believe these acquisitions are immaterial to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements and do not require further
    disclosure herein.

7.    

NOTES PAYABLE
    AND LONG-TERM DEBT  

Long-term
    Debt   

Long-term corporate debt consisted of:

57

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Long-term non-corporate debt consisted of:

Corporate debt and non-corporate debt matures as follows:

The above table excludes the maturity of debt supporting certain
    lease and residual value guarantees of $63,960 (see discussion
    below). Maturities of lease-backed notes are based on the
    contractual maturities of leases.

Debt
    Purchases   

During fiscal 2006, we purchased the following debt before its
    contractual maturity:

On May 25, 2006, we completed the cash tender offer to
    purchase any and all of our 7.25% notes due 2008 (the
     2008 Notes ). We accepted tenders for $81,204 of
    aggregate principal amount (representing approximately 86%) of
    the 2008 Notes. As a result of the tender, we recognized a loss
    during fiscal 2006 from the early extinguishment of debt of
    $3,885, including the write-off of unamortized costs.

During October 2005, we purchased the remaining $53,242 of our
    5% convertible subordinated notes due 2007 (the
     Convertible Notes ) for $54,307. As a result of these
    repurchases, we recognized a loss during fiscal 2006 from the
    early extinguishment of debt of $1,650, including the write-off
    of unamortized costs.

During fiscal 2005, we purchased $236,758 of debt for $239,763.
    As a result of these debt repurchases, we recognized a loss
    during fiscal 2005 from the early extinguishment of debt of
    $6,034, including the write-off of unamortized costs.

58

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

During fiscal 2004, we purchased $277,253 of debt for $305,269.
    As a result of these debt repurchases, plus the termination of
    certain debt instruments, we recognized a loss, including the
    write-off of unamortized costs, of $35,906 during fiscal 2004.

Debt
    Issuances   

In September 2005, we issued $225,000 of notes payable (the
     2015 Notes ) with an interest rate of 7.75%, which
    mature in September 2015. Interest is paid on the 2015 Notes
    semi-annually in March and September of each year, which began
    in March 2006.

In June 2003, we issued $350,000 of 2008 Notes with an interest
    rate of 7.25% (7.43% yield including the original issue
    discount), which mature on June 30, 2008. Interest is paid
    on the 2008 Notes semi-annually in June and December. During
    fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2006, we early extinguished $255,165 and
    $81,204, respectively, of these notes as discussed above.

In May 2002, we issued $300,000 of Convertible Notes with an
    interest rate of 5.0%, which were due on May 1, 2007. The
    Convertible Notes were convertible into shares of our common
    stock at any time before maturity at a conversion price of
    $15.03 per share. Interest was paid on the Convertible
    Notes semi-annually. During fiscal 2005 and 2004, we early
    extinguished $236,758 and $10,000, respectively, of these notes
    and redeemed the remaining balance in October 2005.

In October 1997, we issued $125,000 of notes payable (the
     2027 Notes ) with an interest rate of 7.30%, which
    mature on November 1, 2027. Interest is paid on the 2027
    Notes semi-annually in May and November.

In December 1995, we issued $300,000 of notes payable (the
     2025 Notes ) with an interest rate of 6.75%, which
    mature on December 1, 2025. Interest is paid on the 2025
    Notes semi-annually in June and December.

Lease-Backed
    Notes   

During the year ended September 30, 2006, $202,039 of our
    lease-backed notes were assumed by GE in connection with the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio Sale.

Asset
    Securitization Conduit Financing Agreements   United
    Kingdom   

IKON Capital PLC, our leasing subsidiary in the United Kingdom,
    maintains the U.K. Conduit, a  95,000 (approximately
    $177,869 at September 30, 2006) revolving asset
    securitization conduit financing agreement. At
    September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, we had
    approximately  13,400 and  15,000, respectively,
    available under the U.K. Conduit. During the year ended
    September 30, 2006, there was approximately  11,600 in
    borrowings and no repayments in connection with the U.K. Conduit.

Debt
    Supporting Certain Lease and Residual Value
    Guarantees   

Due mainly to certain provisions within our agreements with GE,
    when we are the original equipment lessor (primarily state and
    local government contracts), we are required to record debt (and
    related assets) for certain lease and residual value guarantees.
    As of September 30, 2006 and 2005, we had recorded $63,960
    and $58,889, respectively, of debt on our balance sheet
    comprised of the following:

We have transferred $54,623 of lease receivables to GE ($53,034
    in the U.S. and $1,589 in Germany), for which we have retained
    certain risks of ownership relating to the assignment of the
    receivables. As a result, we are required to record an asset and
    a corresponding amount of debt representing the present value of
    the lease receivables on our balance sheet. In the event GE is
    unable to recover any lease payments from the lessee as a result
    of our retained ownership risk, we would be required to
    repurchase the lease receivable. Since the inception of our
    relationship with GE in 2004, we have not been required to
    repurchase any lease receivables under this scenario. This
    balance was $35,145 at September 30, 2005.

59

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We have transferred lease receivables to GE for which we have
    retained certain risks of ownership relating to potential
    service performance failures. As a result, we are required to
    record an asset and a corresponding amount of debt representing
    the present value of the residual value related to these lease
    receivables. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, we had
    recorded $3,850 and $9,798, respectively, of debt and associated
    residual value. This debt will not be repaid unless required
    under the applicable lease agreement in the event that an IKON
    service performance failure is determined to relieve the lessee
    of its lease payment obligations. We expect the total
    repurchases of lease receivables in the future, if any, relating
    to our service performance to be immaterial.

We have $5,487 of debt related to equipment on operating leases
    that has been funded by GE for which we are required to keep the
    net book value of the operating leases and a corresponding
    amount of debt on our balance sheet until the expiration of the
    operating lease agreement. This balance was $12,428 at
    September 30, 2005.

Capital
    Lease Obligations   

Capital lease obligations and mortgages are collateralized by
    property and equipment that had a net book value of $945 at
    September 30, 2006.

Credit
    Facility   

We entered into an amended and restated $200,000 secured credit
    facility with a group of lenders effective June 28, 2006
    (the  Credit Facility ). The Credit Facility, which
    matures on June 28, 2011, provides the availability of
    revolving loans, with certain
     sub-limits, 
    and provides support for letters of credit. The amount of credit
    available under the Credit Facility is reduced by open letters
    of credit. The amount available under the Credit Facility for
    borrowings was $170,080 at September 30, 2006. The amount
    available under the Credit Facility for additional letters of
    credit was $70,080 at September 30, 2006. The Credit
    Facility is secured by our domestic accounts receivable and
    domestic inventory, the stock of our first-tier domestic
    subsidiaries, 65% of the stock of our first-tier foreign
    subsidiaries and all of our intangible assets. Under the terms
    of the Credit Facility we are permitted to repurchase shares in
    an aggregate amount not to exceed (a) $100,000 over the
    remaining term of the Credit Facility, plus (b) 50% of net
    income (as defined in the Credit Facility) and (c) an
    additional aggregate amount of $75,000, as long as we maintain a
    proforma Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of
    no greater than two times at the end of any fiscal quarter.

The Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants,
    including limitations on certain fundamental core business
    changes, investments and acquisitions, mergers, certain
    transactions with affiliates, creations of liens, asset
    transfers, payments of dividends, intercompany loans and certain
    restricted payments, including share repurchases. The Credit
    Facility contains certain financial covenants relating to:
    (i) our corporate leverage ratio; (ii) our
    consolidated interest coverage ratio; (iii) limitations on
    our capital expenditures; and (iv) limitations on
    additional indebtedness and liens.

Debt
    Covenants   

As of September 30, 2006, we were in compliance with all of
    our covenants associated with our debt instruments.

Lines
    of Credit   

We have certain committed and uncommitted lines of credit, some
    of which are net of standby letters of credit. As of
    September 30, 2006, we had $210,074 available under lines
    of credit, including $170,080 available under the Credit
    Facility. We also had open standby letters of credit totaling
    $29,920. The letters of credit are supported by the Credit
    Facility. All letters of credit expire within one year.

60

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Interest
    Payments   

We made interest payments of $56,547, $60,537 and $63,564 during
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

8.    

CONTINGENCIES  

Environmental
    and Legal   

We are involved in a number of environmental remediation actions
    to investigate and clean up certain sites related to our
    discontinued operations in accordance with applicable federal
    and state laws. Uncertainties about the status of laws and
    regulations, technology and information related to individual
    sites, including the magnitude of possible contamination, the
    timing and extent of required corrective actions and
    proportionate liabilities of other responsible parties, make it
    difficult to develop a meaningful estimate of probable future
    remediation costs. While the actual costs of remediation at
    these sites may vary from management s estimate because of
    these uncertainties, we had accrued balances, included in other
    long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, of
    $7,444 and $7,710 as of September 30, 2006 and
    September 30, 2005, respectively, for our environmental
    liabilities. The accruals are based on management s best
    estimate of our environmental exposure. The measurement of
    environmental liabilities is based on an evaluation of currently
    available facts with respect to each individual site and
    considers factors such as existing technology, presently enacted
    laws and regulations, prior experience in remediation of
    contaminated sites and any assessments performed at a site. As
    assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, these
    liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional
    technical and legal information that becomes available. After
    consideration of the legal and regulatory alternatives available
    to us, the accrual for such exposure, insurance coverage and the
    obligations of other responsible parties identified at some
    sites, management does not believe that its obligations to
    remediate these sites would have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated financial statements. The accruals for such
    environmental liabilities are reflected in the consolidated
    balance sheets as part of other long-term liabilities.

During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we incurred various costs in
    conjunction with our obligations under consent decrees, orders,
    voluntary remediation plans, settlement agreements and other
    actions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. For
    the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    payments related to these obligations were $299, $290 and $406,
    respectively, which were charged against the related
    environmental accrual. We will continue to incur expenses in
    order to comply with our obligations under consent decrees,
    orders, voluntary remediation plans, settlement agreements and
    other actions to comply with environmental laws and regulations.

We have an accrual related to black lung and workers 
    compensation liabilities relating to the operations of a former
    subsidiary, Barnes & Tucker Company
    ( B ). B&T owned and operated coal mines
    throughout Pennsylvania. We sold B&T in 1986. In connection
    with the sale, we entered into a financing agreement with
    B&T whereby we agreed to reimburse B&T for 95% of all
    costs and expenses incurred by B&T for black lung and
    workers  compensation liabilities, until the liabilities
    were extinguished. From 1986 through 2000, we reimbursed B&T
    in accordance with the terms of the financing agreement. In
    2000, B&T filed for bankruptcy protection under
    Chapter 11. The bankruptcy court approved a plan of
    reorganization that created a black lung trust and a
    workers  compensation trust to handle the administration of
    all black lung and workers  compensation claims relating to
    B&T. We now reimburse the trusts for 95% of the costs and
    expenses incurred by the trusts for black lung and workers 
    compensation claims. As of September 30, 2006 and
    September 30, 2005, our accrual for black lung and
    workers  compensation liabilities related to B&T was
    $10,147 and $10,922, respectively, and was reflected in the
    consolidated balance sheets as part of other accrued expenses
    and other long-term liabilities.

As of September 30, 2006, we had accrued aggregate
    liabilities totaling $1,200 in other accrued expenses and
    $16,391 in other long-term liabilities for the contingent
    matters described above. While we believe we have appropriately
    accrued for these matters, there exists a possibility of adverse
    outcomes or unexpected additional costs which may result in us
    incurring additional losses beyond our recorded amounts. In
    regard to these matters, we

61

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

believe the possibility is remote that a loss exceeding amounts
    accrued that would be material to our consolidated financial
    statements may have been incurred.

Other
    Contingencies   

In connection with the Transactions, we agreed to indemnify GE
    with respect to certain liabilities that may arise in connection
    with business activities that occurred prior to the completion
    of such transactions. Under the definitive asset purchase
    agreements in connection with the Transactions, if GE were to
    incur a liability in connection with an indemnifiable claim, we
    may be required to reimburse GE for the full amount of GE s
    damages.

We also agreed to indemnify GE with respect to certain
    liabilities that may arise in connection with leases originated
    under the U.S. Program Agreement, as amended. These
    indemnification obligations include, among others, recourse
    obligations on different types of leases originated under the
    program that could potentially become uncollectible due to acts
    or omissions of IKON. In the event that all lease receivables
    for which we have provided this recourse indemnification to GE
    in connection with the leases under the U.S. Program
    Agreement, as amended, become uncollectible, the maximum
    potential loss we could incur as a result of these lease
    recourse indemnifications at September 30, 2006 was
    $261,736. Based on our analysis of historical losses for these
    types of leases, we had recorded reserves totaling approximately
    $529 at September 30, 2006. The equipment leased to the
    customers related to the above indemnifications represents
    collateral that we would be entitled to recover and could be
    remarketed by us. No specific recourse provisions exist with
    other parties related to assets sold in the Transactions or
    under the U.S. Program Agreement.

We have a deferred tax asset of $21,182 related to our
    operations in Canada. As previously disclosed in our
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended June 30, 2006, our Canadian operations
    were unprofitable in fiscal 2005 and were unprofitable through
    the nine months ended June 30, 2006. Management initiated
    substantive actions in June 2006 to return the operations to
    profitability. Those actions were successful in making our
    Canadian operations profitable for fiscal 2006 and we project
    our Canadian operations will also be profitable in fiscal 2007.
    Therefore, we have determined that the deferred tax asset was
    not impaired as of September 30, 2006. However, if our
    Canadian operations are unable to sustain profitability,
    management may conclude that the asset is impaired and as a
    result of the impairment, record a valuation allowance for the
    full amount of the deferred tax asset. This valuation allowance
    may have a material effect on earnings per share, but would not
    impact cash flow or our rights in respect of the underlying tax
    asset.

There are other contingent liabilities for taxes, guarantees,
    other lawsuits, including purported class actions and various
    other matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. We
    believe we have valid legal arguments and will continue to
    represent our interests vigorously in all proceedings that we
    are defending or prosecuting. On the basis of information
    furnished by counsel and others, and after consideration of the
    defenses available to us and any related reserves and insurance
    coverage, management, as of September 30, 2006, believes
    that the impact of these other contingencies will not be
    material to our consolidated financial statements. Should
    developments in any of these matters cause a change in our
    determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the
    need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these
    matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for
    significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect
    on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position
    in the period or periods in which such change in determination,
    judgment or settlement occurs.

62

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

9.    

SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY  

Shares of common and treasury stock were as follows:

We have in place a rights agreement ( Rights Plan )
    which expires on June 18, 2007 and provides holders of our
    common stock with rights to purchase, at an exercise price of
    $204.00, 1/100th of a share of our Series 12 Preferred
    Stock, in an amount equivalent to the number of shares of our
    common stock held by such holder (individually, a
     Right,  and collectively, the  Rights ).

The Rights Plan provides that the Rights will be exercisable and
    will trade separately from shares of our common stock only if a
    person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of
    the shares of our common stock or commences a tender or exchange
    offer that would result in such a person or group owning 15% or
    more of the shares of our common stock (a  Flip-in
    Event ). Only when a Flip-in Event occurs will shareholders
    receive certificates for the Rights.

If any person actually acquires 15% or more of the shares of
    common stock, other than through a tender or exchange offer for
    all shares of common stock that provides a fair price and other
    terms for such shares, or if a 15% or more shareholder engages
    in certain  self-dealing  transactions or engages in a
    merger or other business combination in which we survive and
    shares of our common stock remain outstanding, the other
    shareholders will be able to exercise the Rights and buy shares
    of our common stock having twice the value of the exercise price
    of the Rights. The Rights Plan allows shareholders, upon action
    by the Board of Directors, to exercise their Rights for 50% of
    the shares of common stock otherwise purchasable upon surrender
    to us of the Rights.

The Board of Directors may, at its option, redeem the Rights for
    $0.01 per Right.

The Rights, in general, may be redeemed at any time prior to the
    tenth day following public announcement that a person has
    acquired a 15% ownership position in shares of our common stock.

In March 2004, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase
    of up to $250,000 of our outstanding shares of common stock (the
     Repurchase Plan ). In February 2006, the Board of
    Directors authorized a $150,000 increase to the Repurchase Plan,
    resulting in a new authorization of up to $400,000. During
    fiscal 2004, we repurchased 6,741 shares of our outstanding
    common stock for $77,574 under the Repurchase Plan. During
    fiscal 2005, we

63

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

repurchased 8,437 shares of our outstanding common stock
    for $86,616 under the Repurchase Plan. During fiscal 2006, we
    repurchased 10,677 shares of our outstanding common stock
    for $130,857 under the Repurchase Plan. At September 30,
    2006, we had $104,953 remaining of the $400,000 authorized under
    the Repurchase Plan. Under terms of the Credit Facility, we are
    permitted to repurchase shares in an aggregate amount not to
    exceed (a) $100,000 over the remaining term of the Credit
    Facility, plus (b) 50% of net income (as defined in the
    Credit Facility) and (c) an additional aggregate amount of
    $75,000, as long as we maintain a proforma Leverage Ratio (as
    defined in the Credit Facility) of no greater than two times at
    the end of any fiscal quarter. We are subject to similar
    restrictions on share repurchases under the terms of our
    7.75% Notes due 2015. At September 30, 2006, based on
    the terms of our Credit Facility and our 2015 Notes, we had
    capacity to spend an additional $82,661 on the repurchase of the
    Company s common stock. This capacity is increased by a
    function of future net income (as described above) and reduced
    by future actual spending on share repurchases.

From
     time-to-time, 
    our Retirement Savings Plan may acquire shares of our common
    stock in open market transactions or from our treasury shares.

10.    

EARNINGS
    PER COMMON SHARE  

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
    diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations:

We accounted for the effect of the Convertible Notes in the
    diluted earnings per common share calculation using the  if
    converted  method. Under that method, the Convertible Notes
    were assumed to be converted to shares

64

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

(weighted for the number of days outstanding in the period) at a
    conversion price of $15.03 and interest expense, net of taxes,
    related to the Convertible Notes was added back to net income.

Options to purchase 1,699, 7,388 and 5,110 shares of common
    stock were outstanding during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively, but were not included in the computation of
    diluted earnings per share because the options  exercise
    prices were greater than the average market price of the common
    shares and, therefore, the effect would be anti-dilutive.

For additional disclosures regarding employee stock options, see
    Note 11.

11.    

STOCK
    BASED COMPENSATION  

The Company adopted SFAS 123(R), during fiscal 2005, using
    the modified retrospective transition method. In accordance with
    SFAS 123(R), we are required to recognize compensation
    expense for all stock-based compensation options and awards
    granted prior to, but not yet vested as of September 30,
    2004, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance
    with the original provisions of SFAS 123,  Accounting
    for Stock-Based Compensation , and compensation expense for
    all stock-based compensation options and awards granted
    subsequent to September 30, 2004, based on the grant-date
    fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of
    SFAS 123(R).

As of September 30, 2006, the Company had
    11,400 shares available for grant.

As of September 30, 2006, total compensation cost related
    to non-vested options and awards not yet recognized is estimated
    to be $12,931. These costs will be recognized through fiscal
    2012 based on the weighted average periods for stock options and
    awards.

Stock
    Options   

In general, all options expire in ten years (twenty years for
    certain non-employee director options) and vest over three years
    (five years for grants issued prior to December 2000). The
    proceeds from options exercised are credited to
    shareholders  equity. A prior plan for our non-employee
    directors enabled participants to receive their annual
    directors  fees in the form of options to purchase shares
    of common stock at a discount. The discount is equivalent to the
    annual directors  fees and is charged to expense. We
    utilize the straight-line single-option approach to expense
    stock options.

The Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which we use to
    determine the fair value of our options, was developed for use
    in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting
    or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the
    Company s employee stock options have certain
    characteristics that are significantly different from traded
    shares, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can
    materially affect the estimated value, in management s
    opinion, the existing valuation model may not provide an
    accurate measure of the fair value of the Company s
    employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee
    stock options is determined in accordance with guidance set
    forth in SFAS 123(R) and the SEC Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 107 using an option-pricing model, that
    value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a
    willing buyer/willing seller market transaction.

During the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    the Company issued 1,242, 1,656 and 2,139 stock options,
    respectively.

During the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, the
    Company recognized $4,189 and $4,953, respectively, of stock
    based compensation expense related to stock options, net of
    taxes. No stock based compensation expense related to stock
    options was recognized in the year ended September 30, 2004.

65

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Changes in common shares under option were:

The total pretax intrinsic value of options exercised during
    fiscal 2006 and 2005 was $17,694 and $5,864, respectively.

The weighted-average fair value at date of grant for options
    granted during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $5.08,
    $4.85 and $4.27, respectively, and were estimated using the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following assumptions
    were applied for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively:

(1)

Dividend yield assumption is based
    on the Company s history and expectation of future dividend
    payouts.

(2)

Expected volatility rate is
    determined using historical price observations at regular
    intervals since 1993 through the respective option date.

(3)

The expected life of employee stock
    options is based on both historical exercise pattern and from
    calculating an expected term from the option date to full
    exercise for the options granted.

(4)

Risk-free interest rate assumption
    is based upon the interest rates published by the Federal
    Reserve for U.S. Treasury Securities with a five-year life.

66

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes information about stock options
    outstanding and exercisable at September 30, 2006:

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents
    the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the Company s
    closing stock price of $13.44 as of the last day of the fiscal
    year ended September 30, 2006, which would have been
    received by the option holders had all option holders exercised
    their options as of that date.

If we had elected to recognize compensation expense based on the
    fair value at the date of grant for options in fiscal year 2004,
    consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123, our net income
    and earnings per share would have been reduced to the following
    pro forma amounts:

Fiscal Year Ended 

September 30, 2004 

Net income as reported

$

83,694

Pro forma effect of expensing
    stock based compensation plans using fair value method not
    included in net income as reported

(6,437

)

Net income, as adjusted

$

77,257

Basic earnings per common
    share:  

Net income as reported

$

0.57

Pro forma effect of expensing
    stock based compensation plans using fair value method not
    included in net income as reported

(0.04

)

Basic earnings per common share,
    as adjusted

$

0.53

Diluted earnings per common
    share:  

Net income as reported

$

0.55

Pro forma effect of expensing
    stock based compensation plans using fair value method not
    included in net income as reported

(0.04

)

Diluted earnings per common share,
    as adjusted

$

0.51

Stock
    Awards   

Generally, employee stock awards vest over varying periods
    beginning as early as the date of issuance and fully vesting up
    to seven years later. In accordance with SFAS 123(R), the
    Company expenses employee stock awards based on the market value
    of the award on the issuance date using a straight-line
    single-option approach. Awards granted prior to the adoption of
    SFAS 123(R) are expensed using an accelerated
    multiple-option approach.

During the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, the
    Company granted 681 and 458 stock awards, respectively, with
    weighted average market values of $11.04 and $10.37,
    respectively and terms similar to the terms mentioned above.
    During the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, there
    were cancellations of 129 and

67

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

64 stock awards, respectively. Additionally, during the
    years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, there were
    issuances of treasury stock of 68 and 209, respectively, for
    stock awards that were fully vested and earned.

During the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    the Company recognized $1,605, $1,384 and $324, respectively, of
    stock based compensation expense related to stock awards, net of
    taxes.

12.    

EMPLOYEE
    BENEFIT PLANS  

Defined
    Benefit Plans   

We sponsor or have sponsored defined benefit pension plans for
    the majority of our employees. The benefits generally are based
    on years of service and compensation. We fund at least the
    minimum amount required by government regulations.

All U.S. employees hired before July 1, 2004 were
    eligible to participate in the U.S. tax-qualified defined
    benefit pension plan (the  Main Plan ) covering active
    employees (together with the Directors  Retirement Plan and
    the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan identified as the
     U.S. Plans ). Effective September 30, 2005,
    the U.S. Plans were frozen, other than the Directors 
    Retirement Plan, which was discontinued in 1997 and only
    provides benefits to three retired Directors. Accordingly,
    participants no longer accrue benefits under these plans.
    Calculations related to our pension plans are based on data as
    of June 30 of each fiscal year. As a result, plan
    amendments and other changes pertaining to our pension plans
    occurring during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year are
    reflected in the subsequent fiscal year. As a result of the
    freezing of the U.S. Plans, we recorded a curtailment
    charge of $2,852 during the three months ended December 31,
    2005. Additionally, effective December 31, 2005 we froze
    one of our
     non-U.S. Plans. 
    As a result of that freeze, we recorded a curtailment charge of
    $798 during the three months ended March 31, 2006.
    Furthermore, any Canadian employee hired on or after
    October 1, 2005 is not eligible to participate in our
    Canadian Defined Benefit Pension Plan.

The components of net periodic pension cost for the
    company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans are:

68

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the
    company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans were:

Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of the end
    of each fiscal year for the company-sponsored defined benefit
    pension plans were:

The fiscal year 2006 assumptions used to determine net periodic
    benefit costs differed from the fiscal year 2005 assumptions
    used to determine benefit obligation for the defined benefit
    pension plans due to the curtailment of the U.S. and one of our
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans in fiscal 2006.

The funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated
    balance sheets for the company-sponsored defined benefit pension
    plans were:

69

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The increase in actuarial gains is related to the curtailment of
    the U.S. and one of our
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans in fiscal 2006.

When the fair value of pension plan assets is less than the
    accumulated benefit obligation, an additional minimum liability
    is recorded in other comprehensive income within
    Shareholders  Equity. In fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, there
    was a (decrease) increase to the minimum pension liability in
    the U.S. Plans included in other comprehensive income of
    $(83,591) and $74,282, respectively. In fiscal 2006 and fiscal
    2005, there was a (decrease) increase to the minimum pension
    liability to the
     non-U.S. Plans 
    included in other comprehensive income of $(2,822) and $7,022,
    respectively.

70

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

On August 1, 2005, 1,782,000 shares of IKON Office
    Solutions common stock were divested from the U.S. Plans.
    As of September 30, 2005, the U.S. Plans no longer
    have investments in our common stock. As of September 30,
    2006 and 2005, our plans  assets were allocated as follows:

The primary objective underlying the pension plans 
    investment policy is to ensure that the assets of the plans are
    invested in a prudent manner to meet the obligations of the
    plans as these obligations come due. The investment policy and
    the associated investment practices must comply with all
    applicable laws and regulations.

The investment policy establishes strategic asset allocation
    percentage targets and appropriate benchmarks for each
    significant asset class to obtain a prudent balance between risk
    and return. The interaction between plan assets and benefit
    obligations is periodically reviewed to assist in the
    establishment of strategic asset allocation targets. For fiscal
    2006, the asset allocation policy for the
    U.S. tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan provided
    for 50% of the Plan s assets to be invested in equity
    securities and 50% to be invested in fixed income securities. On
    November 1, 2006, the policy was revised to provide for a
    more conservative asset allocation, in order to better match the
    Plan s assets with the benefit obligations these assets are
    intended to fund. As a result, during November 2006, the assets
    of the U.S. tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan were
    reallocated such that approximately 70% are now invested in
    fixed income securities, and approximately 30% remain invested
    in equity securities. In determining fiscal 2007 net
    periodic pension expense for the U.S. Plans, the expected
    long-term rate of return was decreased to 7.25%.

For the U.S. Plans, the projected benefit obligation,
    accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for
    the pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess
    of plan assets were $526,564, $526,564 and $509,300,
    respectively, at September 30, 2006, and $716,568, $627,390
    and $403,578, respectively, at September 30, 2005.

For the
     non-U.S. Plans, 
    the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation
    and fair value of plan assets for the pension plans with
    accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
    $89,612, $81,923 and $74,106, respectively, at
    September 30, 2006, and $87,973, $77,924 and $53,697,
    respectively, at September 30, 2005.

Contributions to the U.S. Plans were $86,878 and $40,392,
    during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. These contributions
    included voluntary contributions of $85,000 and $31,200 during
    fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively, in anticipation of
    future funding requirements. Contributions to
     non-U.S. Plans 
    were $13,332 and $3,716, during fiscal 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

In fiscal 2007, we will contribute approximately $1,425 and
    $2,528 to our U.S. and
     non-U.S. Plans, 
    respectively, in accordance with our funding requirements. We
    also expect to make additional voluntary contributions during
    fiscal 2007.

71

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In the future, we expect to make the following benefit payments
    to participants:

Defined
    Contribution Plan   

Many of our employees are eligible to participate in our
    Retirement Savings Plan ( RSP ). The RSP allows
    employees to invest 1% to 25% of regular compensation before
    taxes in fifteen different investment funds. We provide a
    matching contribution to an amount equal to 50% of the
    employees  contributions, up to 6% of regular compensation,
    for a maximum match of 3%. Effective January 1, 2006, we
    increased the employer match of the U.S. defined
    contribution plan for participants who were hired prior to
    July 1, 2004 based on a scale commensurate with years of
    service, and up to a maximum match of 125%. Participants are
    permitted to elect to allocate our matching contribution in
    various investment options, including our common stock.
    Effective September 29, 2007, the Plan will not allow new
    contributions to be invested nor existing funds to be
    transferred into our IKON common stock fund. Any contributions
    invested in the IKON common stock fund prior to
    September 29, 2007 will remain allocated to the fund,
    unless redirected by the participant to other investment options
    at their discretion. Employees vest in a percentage of our
    contribution after two years of service, with full vesting at
    the completion of five years of service. Total expense related
    to the RSP was $21,644, $16,710 and $17,372 in fiscal 2006, 2005
    and 2004, respectively.

Long-Term
    Incentive Compensation Plan   

We have a Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan
    ( LTIP ) pursuant to which key management employees
    have been granted performance-based awards that are earned upon
    achieving predetermined performance objectives during three-year
    intervals, and time-based restricted stock awards that are
    earned upon the fulfillment of vesting requirements. The value
    of these performance-based awards is charged to expense over the
    related plan period. As of September 30, 2006, if the
    predetermined performance objectives were to be achieved in
    full, the 2006, 2005 and 2004 LTIP Plans would be $2,232, $3,409
    and $4,695, respectively. The 2006 Plan will be payable in cash
    or stock in fiscal 2009. The 2005 and 2004 Plans will be payable
    in cash in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2006, 2005
    and 2004, we recognized expense (income) of $4,660, $(689) and
    $(417), respectively, related to LTIP. Fiscal 2005 and 2004 LTIP
    income was due to a change in estimate of future payouts related
    to these awards.

13.    

DIVESTITURE
    OF BUSINESSES AND ASSETS  

LEASING
    OPERATIONS  

United
    States   

On December 10, 2003, we entered into a definitive asset
    purchase agreement with GE, as amended by the First Amendment
    dated March 31, 2004 (the  U.S. Agreement ),
    to sell to GE certain of our assets and liabilities, solely in
    our capacity as successor to IOS Capital, LLC
    ( IOSC ), including, without limitation, servicing
    functions, facilities, systems and processes relating to our
    U.S. leasing operations, and to designate GE to be

72

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

our preferred lease financing source in the U.S. The sale
    of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the
    U.S. Agreement was effective as of March 31, 2004, on
    which date GE entered into a five-year U.S. Program
    Agreement to provide for the funding of our lease originations
    in the U.S. During the initial five-year term of the
    U.S. Program Agreement, we will receive an origination fee
    on all new leases underwritten by GE and income from the sharing
    of gains on certain lease-end activities. In addition, we will
    receive a fee from GE for providing preferred services for lease
    generation in the U.S. (the  Preferred Fees ).
    The term of the U.S. Program Agreement may be renewed by us
    for a subsequent three or five year period during which we would
    be entitled to origination fees and income from the sharing of
    gains on certain lease-end activities, but not the Preferred
    Fees, which have to date amounted to $50,000 annually.

During fiscal 2004, we received $1,689,967 of proceeds from the
    U.S. Transaction. Immediately following the closing, GE
    repaid, on our behalf, $796,070 of outstanding balances under
    our U.S. asset securitization conduit financing agreements
    (the  U.S. Conduits ) from the proceeds of the
    U.S. Transaction. The proceeds from the
    U.S. Transaction and the repayment of the
    U.S. Conduits have been presented as if we made the
    repayment of the U.S. Conduits directly to the lenders as a
    financing activity in our consolidated statement of cash flows
    for fiscal 2004.

During fiscal 2004, we incurred a loss of $12,125 from the
    U.S. Transaction resulting from the difference between the
    carrying amount of assets sold and proceeds received and certain
    costs associated with the U.S. Transaction.

During fiscal 2005, we received $7,217 of additional proceeds
    from GE as a result of the completion of the closing balance
    sheet audit related to the U.S. Transaction. Accordingly,
    we recognized a gain of $7,763 related to the additional
    proceeds received from GE and the reversal of contingencies
    previously recorded related to the U.S. Transaction of $546.

On April 3, 2006, we entered into a definitive Asset
    Purchase Agreement with GE, effective April 1, 2006,
    pursuant to which GE purchased our U.S. Retained Portfolio
    and certain related assets and assumed certain related
    liabilities from us. We received $165,152 of proceeds from the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio Sale, after final closing
    adjustments and we recognized a gain from this transaction in
    our consolidated statements of income of $6,396. For federal
    income tax purposes, we recognized a benefit by releasing a
    valuation allowance associated with capital loss carryforwards
    to offset the tax on the gain from the sale of the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio. We will not retain any interest in
    the sold U.S. Retained Portfolio, except as discussed in
    Note 7.

Canada   

On March 31, 2004, IKON Office Solutions, Inc., an Ontario
    corporation and one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries ( IKON
    Canada ), entered into a definitive asset purchase
    agreement (the  Canadian Agreement ) with Heller
    Financial Canada, an affiliate of GE ( Heller ), to
    sell certain assets including, without limitation, servicing
    functions, facilities, systems and processes relating to our
    Canadian leasing operations, and to designate Heller to be our
    preferred lease financing source in Canada. On June 30,
    2004, Heller assigned its rights and obligations under the
    Canadian Agreement to GE VFS Canada Limited Partnership
    ( GE Canada ) by executing an Assignment and Amendment
    Agreement among Heller, GE Canada, IKON and IKON Office
    Solutions Northern Ltd., a Northwest Territory corporation. The
    sale of such assets pursuant to the Canadian Agreement was
    effective as of June 30, 2004, on which date IKON, GE
    Canada and IKON Office Solutions Northern Ltd. entered into the
    Canadian Rider to the U.S. Program Agreement to provide for
    the funding of our lease originations in Canada. During the
    initial five-year term of the Canadian Rider, we will receive an
    origination fee on all new leases underwritten by GE. The term
    of the Canadian Rider may be renewed by us for a subsequent
    three or five year period during which we would be entitled to
    origination fees.

On June 30, 2004, we received $159,181 of initial proceeds
    from the Canadian Transaction.

73

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Immediately following the closing of the Canadian Transaction,
    GE repaid, on our behalf, $63,677 of outstanding balances under
    our Canadian asset securitization conduit financing agreement
    (the  Canadian Conduit ) from the proceeds of the
    Canadian Transaction. The proceeds from the Canadian Transaction
    and the repayment of the Canadian Conduit have been presented as
    if we made the repayment of the Canadian Conduit directly to the
    lender as a financing activity in our consolidated statement of
    cash flows for fiscal 2004.

During fiscal 2004, we recognized a gain of $698 from the
    Canadian Transaction resulting from the difference between the
    carrying amount of assets sold and proceeds received and certain
    costs associated with the Canadian Transaction. During fiscal
    2005, we recorded a charge of $733 as a result of the completion
    of the closing balance sheet audit related to the Canadian
    Transaction.

The Transactions qualify as a sale of business under the
    applicable accounting literature; however, due to our
    significant continuing involvement under the U.S. Program
    Agreement and the Canadian Rider, the sale of the U.S. and
    Canadian leasing businesses do not qualify as discontinued
    operations.

Under the Transactions, GE assumed substantially all risks
    related to lease defaults for both the retained and sold lease
    receivables.

Germany   

On June 8, 2006, we entered into a definitive asset
    purchase agreement with GE in Germany, effective June 1,
    2006, pursuant to which GE purchased $56,702 of lease
    receivables from us. We recognized an immaterial gain as a
    result of the sale of these assets, and will not retain any
    interest in these assets, except as discussed in Note 7. In
    connection with the sale, we entered into the German Program
    Agreement, pursuant to which we designated GE as our preferred
    lease financing source in Germany. Either party may terminate
    the German Program Agreement on March 31, 2009 if the
    U.S. Program Agreement is not renewed beyond such date.

KAFEVEND  

On October 3, 2005, we sold our coffee vending business in
    the United Kingdom, Kafevend Group PLC ( Kafevend ),
    for $19,128. We recognized a gain of $4,924 on the sale of
    Kafevend during fiscal 2006 resulting from the difference
    between the carrying amount of assets sold, net of certain
    liabilities and proceeds received less certain associated costs.
    The gain on the divestiture of Kafevend is exempt from income
    tax under United Kingdom tax law.

SALE OF
    FRENCH OPERATING SUBSIDIARY  

During fiscal 2005, we sold substantially all of our operations
    in France (the  French Sale ). We recognized a gain in
    the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 of $10,110 from the French
    Sale resulting from the difference between the carrying amount
    of assets sold and proceeds received and certain costs
    associated with the French Sale. We will continue to support key
    accounts and Pan European accounts, which focuses on large,
    multi-national accounts, through an ongoing presence in Paris.

SALE OF
    MEXICAN OPERATING SUBSIDIARY  

During fiscal 2005, we sold substantially all of our operations
    in Mexico (the  Mexican Sale ). We incurred a loss in
    the second quarter of fiscal 2005 of $6,734 from the Mexican
    Sale resulting from the difference between the carrying amount
    of assets sold and proceeds received and certain associated
    costs. We will continue to serve our national and multi-national
    customers in Mexico and operate our remanufacturing facility
    located in Tijuana.

74

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

OTHER
    DIVESTITURES  

During fiscal 2005, we sold two small U.S. business units
    that provided technology equipment and services to customers. As
    a result of these sales, we recognized a gain of $1,125.

As a result of the transactions above, we recognized a net
    (gain) loss during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 of $(11,497),
    $(11,531) and $11,427, respectively.

14.    

RESTRUCTURING
    AND ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGES  

During fiscal 2005, we took several actions to reduce costs,
    increase productivity and improve operating income. These
    actions involved our operations in BDS, LDS, our North American
    field organization, our corporate staff and our operating
    subsidiary in Mexico.

Business
    Document Services   

During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we exited BDS, which
    provided off-site document management solutions, including
    digital print and fulfillment services. This exit was achieved
    by the closure or sale of 11 North American operating sites. As
    of September 30, 2005, all of the 11 BDS sites were closed
    or sold. Proceeds received from the sale of two sites were not
    material. As a result of this exit, the results of operations
    and cash flows of BDS are classified as discontinued operations
    (see Note 16).

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, pre-tax
    restructuring charges related to BDS were $444, and no
    additional asset impairment charges were incurred. For the
    fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, pre-tax restructuring
    and asset impairment charges related to BDS were $9,267 and
    $1,331, respectively. The pre-tax components of the
    restructuring, asset impairment charges and other costs for
    fiscal 2006 and 2005 are as follows:

The restructuring charge includes severance for the termination
    of 302 employees during fiscal 2005, and the asset impairment
    charge represents fixed asset write-offs. In addition, during
    fiscal 2005, we wrote-down inventories and other assets by $610
    and recorded additional reserves for accounts receivable of
    $281, which are included in  other non-restructuring
    items  in the table above. During fiscal 2006, the
    additional reserves for accounts receivable were decreased by
    $241. These charges are included within discontinued operations.

Legal
    Document Services   

LDS provides off-site document management solutions for the
    legal industry, including document imaging, coding and
    conversion services, legal graphics and electronic discovery.
    During fiscal 2005, we closed 16 of 82 LDS sites in North
    America to provide cost flexibility and savings.

75

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

As a result of the closure of these sites, we recorded a pre-tax
    restructuring charge of $46 for the fiscal year ended
    September 30, 2006. For the fiscal year ended
    September 30, 2005, pre-tax restructuring and asset
    impairment charges related to LDS were $2,094 and $229,
    respectively. The pre-tax components of the restructuring, asset
    impairment charges and other costs for fiscal 2006 and 2005 are
    as follows:

The restructuring charge includes severance for the termination
    of 157 employees during fiscal 2005. The asset impairment charge
    represents fixed asset write-offs. In addition, during fiscal
    2005, we wrote-down inventories and other assets by $44 and
    recorded additional reserves for accounts receivable of $68,
    which are included in  other non-restructuring items 
    in the table above. During fiscal 2006, reserves for accounts
    receivable were decreased by $126.

Field
    Organization and Corporate Staff Reduction   

During fiscal 2005, we reorganized our field structure in North
    America to serve our customers in a more cost-effective manner,
    while maximizing sales potential. To achieve this, we expanded
    geographic coverage under certain area vice presidents, allowing
    us to reduce the number of our marketplaces. By streamlining our
    field leadership structure and reducing other corporate staff,
    we expect to save costs while maintaining our sales capabilities
    and services provided to customers. As a result of these
    actions, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $8,176
    representing severance for 381 employees during the fiscal year
    ended September 30, 2005. In addition, we recorded asset
    impairments representing fixed asset write-offs in the amount of
    $112 during fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2006, we recorded a
    pre-tax restructuring benefit of $368 as a result of a revision
    to our original estimate based on more recent information that
    we did not have at the time the reserve was established.

76

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Summarized
    Restructuring Activity  

The pre-tax components of the restructuring and asset impairment
    charges for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 are as follows:

We calculated the asset impairment charges in accordance with
    SFAS 144. The proceeds received for sites sold or held for
    sale were not sufficient to cover the fixed asset balances and,
    as such, those balances were written off. Fixed assets
    associated with closed sites were written-off.

All restructuring costs were incurred within INA and Corporate.

The following presents a reconciliation of the restructuring
    charges in fiscal 2005 to the accrual balance remaining at
    September 30, 2006, which is included in other accrued
    expenses on the consolidated balance sheets:

*

The adjustments in the table above
    are the result of revising our estimates based on more recent
    information, which we did not have at the time the reserve was
    established. The adjustments made during fiscal 2006 were not
    material to our consolidated financial statements.

The year ended September 30, 2006 included certain charges
    related to the restructuring of BDS, which is included as a
    discontinued operation (discussed at Note 16). The
    restructuring (benefit) charge for continuing operations was
    $(322) and $10,543 for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The projected payments of the remaining balances of the charge,
    by fiscal year, are as follows:

77

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

All contractual commitment amounts related to leases are shown
    net of projected sublease income. Projected sublease income was
    $527 at September 30, 2006. To the extent that sublease
    income cannot be realized, changes to the restructuring charges
    will be incurred in each period in which sublease income is not
    received.

The employees affected by the charge were as follows:

The sites affected by the charge were as follows:

During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, management determined
    that one of the 17 LDS sites initially approved for closing
    would remain in operation. As such, there were 16 sites affected
    and closed by the charge as of September 30, 2005. As of
    September 30, 2005, there were no additional employees to
    be terminated and there were no remaining sites to be closed
    related to the actions described above. The charges for
    contractual commitments relate to real estate lease contracts
    for certain sites that we have exited but are required to make
    payments over the balance of the lease term. The charges for
    contract termination represent costs incurred to immediately
    terminate contracts.

Provision for income taxes from continuing operations:

78

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities
    were as follows:

The overall increase in the net deferred tax assets was
    primarily due to the sale of the U.S. Retained Portfolio
    associated with the exit of our North American leasing
    operations described in Note 13. The tax basis in the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio was lower than the book basis
    primarily due to accelerated depreciation claimed for tax
    purposes. Therefore, the sale of the assets of the
    U.S. Retained Portfolio resulted in a reduction to the
    deferred tax liabilities and an increase in income tax payments.
    Net income tax payments were $155,364, $92,291 and $356,374 in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards consist
    primarily of state carryforwards of $208,081, principally
    expiring in fiscal 2007 through 2023 and foreign carryforwards
    of $43,515, of which $31,630 has no expiration date and the
    remaining $11,885 principally expiring in fiscal 2008 through
    2021.

During fiscal 2006, we recorded the following:

a valuation allowance of $910 against net operating losses
    generated in certain foreign jurisdictions, primarily Italy,
    Spain and Switzerland;

a valuation allowance of $251 against net operating losses
    generated in France. Partially offsetting this tax expense, we
    recorded a tax benefit of $245 associated with the reversal of
    valuation allowances for capital loss carryforwards, as
    additional proceeds were received from the sale of our French
    operations that occurred in fiscal 2005;

a tax benefit of $1,723 associated with the divestiture of
    Kafevend as the gain on the divestiture of Kafevend is exempt
    from income tax under United Kingdom tax law;

a tax benefit of $2,700 associated with the release of a
    Canadian tax reserve for which the underlying tax exposure has
    been resolved;

additional tax expense of $2,400 resulting from the revaluation
    of a Canadian deferred tax asset driven by legislative tax rate
    changes;

a tax benefit of $2,341 associated with the reversal of
    valuation allowances for capital loss carryforwards as a result
    of the gain on sale of the U.S. Retained Portfolio;

79

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

a tax benefit of $1,039 resulting from the revaluation of the
    state net operating loss deferred tax asset driven by a
    Pennsylvania legislative change to annual NOL utilization
    limitations; and

a benefit from the difference between our actual state tax
    liability upon the filing of our state tax returns compared to
    the deferred state tax provision.

During fiscal 2006, the Company s Chief Executive Officer
    and Board of Directors approved a Domestic Reinvestment Plan
    (the  Plan ) providing for the repatriation of up to
    $60,000 of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act
    of 2004 (the  Act ). Under this Plan, the Company
    repatriated foreign earnings of $30,500, including base period
    dividend requirements, in accordance with the temporary
    repatriation incentive under the Act. Accordingly, the Company
    recorded a $2,400 tax charge and a related accrued tax
    liability, including the tax on the base period dividend. The
    repatriated funds were used for the expenditures incurred for
    compensation of existing and newly hired workers (other than
    payments of executive compensation).

During fiscal 2005, we recorded the following:

total tax benefits of $2,127, associated with the deferral of
    depreciation expense for tax purposes in Ireland. This includes
    $1,345 of benefits related to depreciable assets purchased in
    fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005, we deferred the deduction of
    Irish tax depreciation expense, in accordance with Irish tax
    law, until fiscal 2006 when the Irish rate increased to 12.5%;

a valuation allowance of $1,536 against net operating losses
    generated in certain foreign jurisdictions, primarily France and
    Mexico; and

a tax benefit of $3,539 associated with the reversal of the
    valuation allowances on the French Sale. Since the tax basis in
    the French investment was higher than the book basis, an
    additional tax benefit of $7,876 was generated. This benefit was
    offset by a valuation allowance due to capital loss limitations.

During fiscal 2005, the tax benefit related to the Mexican Sale
    was limited to $1,750 since capital losses can only be used to
    offset capital gains. Since the tax basis in the Mexican
    investment was higher than the book basis, an additional tax
    benefit of $7,969 was generated. This benefit was offset by a
    valuation allowance due to capital loss limitations. In
    addition, $11,388 of deferred tax assets, primarily representing
    net operating loss carryforwards, were reversed, as they could
    no longer be utilized. This had no impact on our effective tax
    rate as the amounts were offset by valuation allowances.

Pre-tax income from domestic and foreign operations was $123,809
    and $34,109, respectively, in fiscal 2006, $83,506 and $21,444,
    respectively, in fiscal 2005 and $101,515 and $17,102,
    respectively, in fiscal 2004.

A reconciliation of income tax expense at the U.S. federal
    statutory income tax rate to actual income tax expense from
    continuing operations is as follows:

80

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were
    approximately $91,500 at September 30, 2006. Those earnings
    are considered to be indefinitely reinvested and, therefore, no
    provision has been recorded for U.S. federal and state
    income taxes.

16.    

DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS  

In connection with our restructuring plan discussed in
    Note 14, we exited from BDS, a component of INA, during
    fiscal 2005. The exit of this business involved the sale or
    closure of 11 digital print centers. These sales and closures
    were evaluated for severance and lease liabilities, and asset
    impairments, including goodwill, in accordance with our
    accounting policies. Operating activities of BDS are reported as
    discontinued. Summarized financial information for BDS is set
    forth below:

As of September 30, 2005, all digital print centers were
    closed or sold. Assets related to BDS are recorded at their
    estimated net realizable value.

SFAS 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
    and Related Information,  defines operating segments as
    components of an enterprise for which separate financial
    information is available and is evaluated regularly by the chief
    operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding
    how to allocate resources and for assessing performance.

We have identified the IKON North America Copier Business, the
    IKON North America Outsourcing Business and IKON Europe
    ( IE ) as our three operating segments. We report
    information about our operating segments based on the structure
    of our internal organization and the way our chief operating
    decision maker, our Chief Executive Officer, organizes the
    segments within the enterprise for making operating decisions,
    assessing performance and allocating resources and management
    responsibility. We determined that our IKON North America Copier
    and IKON North America Outsourcing businesses have similar
    economic characteristics and, as such, we have aggregated IKON
    North America Copier and IKON North America Outsourcing into one
    reportable segment referred to as IKON North America
    ( INA ).

Our two reportable segments, INA and IE, each provide copiers,
    printers, color solutions and a variety of document management
    service capabilities through Enterprise Services; however, we
    believe they do not meet all of the aggregation criteria to be
    reported as one segment. Our IE segment also includes our
    captive finance subsidiaries in the U.K.

81

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The accounting policies for both INA and IE are the same as
    those described in the summary of significant accounting
    policies in Note 1. The table below presents segment
    information from continuing operations for the fiscal years
    ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004:

82

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

83

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Reconciliation of segment assets, depreciation expense from
    continuing operations and expenditures for fixed assets from
    continuing operations to consolidated assets, depreciation
    expense from continuing operations and expenditures for fixed
    assets from continuing operations for the years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:

Our INA segment assets at September 30, 2006 decreased
    compared to September 30, 2005 due mainly to the sale of
    the U.S. Retained Portfolio.

Our INA segment assets at September 30, 2005, decreased
    compared to September 30, 2004 due mainly to the continued
    run-off of the U.S. Retained Portfolio and divestiture of
    businesses discussed in Note 13.

The following is revenue from continuing operations and
    long-lived asset information by geographic area for the years
    ended and as of September 30:

84

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Long-lived assets consist of equipment on operating leases, net
    property and equipment, goodwill and other assets. Long-term
    receivables in the amount of $1,878, $2,995 and $3,609 in fiscal
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, have been included in other
    assets on the consolidated balance sheets, but are excluded from
    total long-lived assets above.

18.    

FINANCIAL
    INSTRUMENTS  

We use financial instruments in the normal course of our
    business for purposes other than trading. These financial
    instruments include debt, commitments to extend credit, interest
    rate caps and interest rate and currency swap agreements. The
    notional or contractual amounts of these commitments and other
    financial instruments are discussed below.

Concentration
    of Credit Risk   

We are subject to credit risk through trade receivables, lease
    receivables and short-term cash investments. Credit risk with
    respect to trade and lease receivables is minimized because of
    geographic dispersion of our large customer base. However, at
    September 30, 2006, we had accounts receivable from GE of
    $88,812 (including amounts unbilled), which represents a
    significant concentration of our accounts receivable.
    Accordingly, if GE were not able to repay the amount owed to us,
    the impact would have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity, financial position and results of operations.

Short-term cash investments are placed with high credit quality
    financial institutions and in short duration corporate and
    government debt securities funds. We generally limit the amount
    of credit exposure in any one type of investment instrument and
    with any single counterparty.

Interest
    Rate Caps   

We have a 7.00% interest rate cap relating to the  95,000
    revolving asset securitization conduit financing facility which
    provides funding for our United Kingdom leasing subsidiary, the
    notional value of which was  95,000 at September 30,
    2006, an increase of  10,000 from September 30, 2005.

Interest
    Rate Agreements   

We had interest rate swap agreements relating to our
    lease-backed notes in the U.S., having a total notional amount
    of $43,719 at September 30, 2005, with a fixed rate of
    2.095%. During fiscal 2006, our leased-backed notes were repaid
    and the interest rate swap agreements were terminated. As a
    result of the termination we reclassified $262 of unrealized net
    losses from comprehensive income to earnings. As of
    September 30, 2006, we have no interest rate swap
    agreements.

We use the following methods and assumptions in estimating fair
    value disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents, Accounts Receivable and
    Notes Payable  

The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets
    approximate fair value.

Long-Term
    Debt  

The fair value of long-term debt instruments is estimated using
    a discounted cash flow analysis. For more information on these
    instruments, refer to Note 7.

85

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The carrying amounts and fair value of our financial
    instruments, excluding $63,960 and $58,889 of debt supporting
    certain lease and residual value guarantees at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are as follows:

19.    

QUARTERLY
    FINANCIAL SUMMARY (unaudited)  

First, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006 include pre-tax
    charges from the early extinguishment of debt of $1,650, $3,866
    and $19, respectively. First, second, third and fourth quarters
    of fiscal 2006 include pre-tax gains (losses) from the
    divestiture of businesses of $4,924, $105, $6,931 and $(463),
    respectively.

86

Table of Contents   

IKON
    OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

*

Does not add due to rounding.

Second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 include pre-tax
    asset impairment and restructuring charge (benefits) of $11,709,
    ($379) and ($787), respectively. Second and fourth quarters of
    fiscal 2005 include pre-tax charges from the early
    extinguishment of debt of $1,734 and $4,300, respectively.
    Second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 include pre-tax gains
    from the divestiture of businesses of $1,901 and $9,630,
    respectively. Second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 include
    pre-tax charges from the early termination of real estate
    contracts of $2,168 and $3,944, respectively. Second quarter of
    fiscal 2005 include pre-tax charge of $327 related to the
    consolidation of the LDS business. The fourth quarter of fiscal
    2005 includes a pre-tax charge of $7,000 for the early
    termination of a consulting contract, a pre-tax charge of $1,000
    related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and a pre-tax charge of
    $3,798 from a change in certain U.K. pension liabilities.

87

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

(No response to this item is required.)

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

(a)    

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed
    to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the
    reports that the Company files or submits under the Securities
    and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the  Exchange
    Act ) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
    within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and
    forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated
    to the Company s management, including its Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow
    timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
    of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    of the Exchange Act) as of September 30, 2006 pursuant to
     Rule 13a-15(b) 
    under the Exchange Act. Management necessarily applied its
    judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls
    and procedures that, by their nature, can provide only
    reasonable assurance regarding management s control
    objectives. Management does not expect that its disclosure
    controls and procedures will prevent all errors and fraud. A
    control system, irrespective of how well it is designed and
    operated, can only provide reasonable assurance, and cannot
    guarantee that it will succeed in its stated objectives.

Based on their evaluation, our management, including our Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has concluded
    that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective
    at the reasonable assurance level because of the material
    weakness described below in Management s Report on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting. Notwithstanding the material
    weakness described below, we have implemented processes and
    performed additional procedures designed to ensure that our
    consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
    with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
    States of America. Accordingly, management believes that the
    consolidated financial statements included in this report fairly
    present, in all material respects, the Company s financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows for all periods
    presented.

Management s
    Remediation Initiatives   

We have a complex billing process that is performed in several
    locations using multiple billing platforms. The process requires
    the proper initiation of a customer master record and contract
    to ensure consistent billing of periodic charges. Additionally,
    our collection of accurate meter readings from equipment at
    customer locations is critical in order to ensure the generation
    of accurate invoices. During fiscal 2006, we undertook several
    initiatives to remediate the material weakness described below,
    including:

establishing a fully-staffed service billing organization under
    an aligned organization structure;

refocusing on our conversion to One Platform comprised of a
    common enterprise resource planning system, primarily based on
    the Oracle
     E-Business 
    Suite (the  One Platform Conversion 

conducting tests of contract
     set-up 
    procedures at each of our North American billing centers and
    subsequently launching a re-designed contract
     set-up 
    module in the Oracle
     E-Business 
    Suite in order to simplify the contract
     set-up 
    process and reduce billing errors;

using actual service billing data from our service provider in
    lieu of estimated amounts;

initializing and subsequently expanding a program designed to
    assess the accuracy of estimated meter reads; and

launching a standardization project to re-evaluate key controls
    over financial reporting at our North American billing centers.

88

Table of Contents   

We expect these actions will further remediate the material
    weakness in billing described below and, during fiscal 2006, we
    noted the following:

significant improvement in accounts receivable aging trends and
    the timeliness in which we issued invoice adjustments;

substantial reduction in contract
     set-up  and
    billing errors as quality improved at each of our four North
    American billing centers, three of which are now utilizing the
    Oracle
     E-Business 
    Suite;

the establishment of new key financial controls; and

steady progress in our remediation efforts relating to
    deficiencies in the segregation of incompatible duties within
    our billing function.

As of September 30, 2006, our remediation efforts related
    to the material weakness described above were not complete and
    we have not yet determined what further initiatives, if any, may
    be undertaken or when in the future we believe our efforts to
    remediate the material weakness will be completed. However, we
    will continue to focus on these initiatives and develop new
    measures with the goal of ultimately resolving and remediating
    our material weakness in a timely manner. Our efforts to
    remediate the material weakness will continue into fiscal 2007
    and will include our ongoing One Platform Conversion. We began
    to initiate testing and implementation of the One Platform
    Conversion during the first quarter of fiscal 2007.

(b)    

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f). 
    The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
    America. The Company s internal control over financial
    reporting includes those policies and procedures that
    (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
    (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles in the United States of America, and that receipts
    and expenditures of the Company are being made only in
    accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
    the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
    regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
    acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets
    that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of future periods are
    subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
    of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
    the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness
    of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    as of September 30, 2006. In making its evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, management used the
    criteria described in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ).

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of
    control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote
    likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
    financial statements will not be prevented or detected.
    Management identified the following control deficiencies which,
    in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006:

The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
    accuracy and validity of revenue, accounts receivable and
    deferred revenue. Specifically, the Company s controls over
    (i) the timely issuance of invoice adjustments,
    (ii) the initiation of customer master records and
    contracts to ensure consistent billing of periodic charges,
    (iii) the collection of accurate meter readings from
    equipment to ensure the accurate generation of

89

Table of Contents   

customer invoices and (iv) the segregation of incompatible
    duties within the billing function were deficient. Because, as
    of September 30, 2006, these control deficiencies could
    result in a misstatement of the aforementioned accounts that
    would result in a material misstatement to the Company s
    interim or annual consolidated financial statements that would
    not be prevented or detected, management has determined that
    these control deficiencies, in the aggregate, constitute a
    material weakness.

Because of this material weakness, management concluded that the
    Company did not maintain effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on the
    criteria in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework
     issued by the COSO. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
    independent registered public accounting firm, has audited
    management s assessment of the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006 as stated in their report, which is
    included in Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

(c)    

Changes
    in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Our management carried out an evaluation, with the participation
    of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of
    the changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)  as
    promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934). Based on this evaluation, our management determined that
    there has not been any change in our internal control over
    financial reporting during our most recently completed fiscal
    quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

(No response to this item is required.)

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Information regarding directors appearing in IKON s Notice
    of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement for the
    annual meeting of shareholders to be held on February 21,
    2007 (the  2007 Proxy Statement ) is incorporated
    herein by reference. Additional information regarding executive
    officers appearing under  Executive Compensation  in
    the 2007 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
    The information presented in the 2007 Proxy Statement relating
    to the Audit Committee s financial experts is incorporated
    herein by reference. Information regarding executive officers
    contained in Part I, Item 4A of this
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated herein by reference.

We have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all of our
    directors and employees including, without limitation, our
    principal executive officer, our principal financial officer,
    our principal accounting officer and all of our employees
    performing financial or accounting functions. Our Code of Ethics
    is posted on our website,  www.ikon.com , and may be found
    under the  Investor Relations  section by clicking on
     Corporate Governance  and then clicking on
     Corporate Integrity.  We intend to continue to
    satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our
    Code of Ethics by posting such information on our website at the
    location specified above.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Information appearing under  Summary of Executive
    Compensation  in the 2007 Proxy Statement is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners and management appearing under  Security
    Ownership  in the 2007 Proxy Statement is incorporated
    herein by reference.

90

Table of Contents   

Information regarding IKON s equity compensation plans
    appears below:

The following table sets forth information about IKON s
    common stock that may be issued under all of IKON s
    existing equity compensation plans as of September 30,
    2006, including the 2006 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan, 1995
    Stock Option Plan, Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan and
    Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan (merged the
    former 1989 and 1993 Directors Plans). As of
    February 22, 2006, all of IKON s equity compensation
    plans have been approved by security holders.

(c) 

(a) 

Number of Securities 

Number of Securities 

(b) 

Remaining Available for 

to be Issued Upon 

Weighted-Average 

Future Equity Issuance 

Exercise of 

Exercise Price of 

Under Compensation Plans 

Outstanding Options, 

Outstanding Options, 

(Excluding Securities 

Warrants or Rights 

Warrants or Rights 

Reflected in Column(a)) 

Plan Category  

Equity compensation plans approved
    by security holders

10,846,921

$

11.40

10,926,821

Equity compensation plans not
    approved by security holders

Total

10,846,921

$

11.40

10,926,821

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions   

Information appearing under  Certain Relationships and
    Related Transactions  in the 2007 Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

Information regarding accountant fees and services appearing
    under  Independent Auditors  Fees and Services 
    in the 2007 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)(1) List of Financial Statements

The following financial statements are filed as part of this
    report under Item 8    Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data. 

Page 

Report of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm

43

Consolidated Statements of Income

45

Consolidated Balance Sheets

46

Consolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows

47

Consolidated Statements of Changes
    in Shareholders  Equity

48

Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements

49

Quarterly Financial Summary

86

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
    for the three fiscal years ended September 30, 2006.

91

Table of Contents   

All other schedules for which provision is made in the
    applicable accounting regulation of the Commission are not
    required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and,
    therefore, have been omitted.

SCHEDULE II  
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

(1)

Accounts written-off during the
    year, net of recoveries for total operations.

(2)

Accounts written-off during the
    year, net of recoveries. In addition, $58,293 of lease default
    reserves were sold to GE as part of the Transactions. See
    Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

(3)

Primarily represents the expiration
    of net operating losses and tax credits for which a valuation
    allowance was provided.

(4)

Amounts represent charges related
    to total operations.

(5)

Balance at September 30, 2006
    and 2005, relates only to our European leasing operations.

The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report
    (listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of
    Item 601 in
     Regulation S-K): 

(a)(3) List of Exhibits*

Sale of Certain Assets and
    Liabilities Relating to our Leasing Operations in the U.S. and
    Canada  

2

.1

Asset Purchase Agreement dated as
    of December 11, 2003, by and among IKON, IOS Capital, LLC
    ( IOSC ) and General Electric Capital Corporation,
    filed as Exhibit 2.1 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated December 15, 2003, is incorporated herein by
    reference.

2

.2

First Amendment dated as of
    March 31, 2004, between IKON and General Electric Capital
    Corporation, to the Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of
    December 10, 2003, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated April 6, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.

2

.3

Asset Purchase Agreement dated as
    of March 31, 2004, between IKON, an Ontario corporation,
    and Heller Financial Canada, filed as Exhibit 2.2 to
    IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated April 6, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.

2

.4

Assignment and Amendment Agreement
    dated as of June 30, 2004, by and among Heller Financial
    Canada, General Electric Capital Canada, Inc., as general
    partner of GE VFS Canada Limited Partnership Corporation, IKON,
    and IKON Office Solutions Northern Ltd., to the Asset Purchase
    Agreement dated as of March 31, 2004, filed as
    Exhibit 2.1 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated July 7, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.

92

Table of Contents   

2

.5

Asset Purchase Agreement dated as
    of April 1, 2006, between IKON and General Electric Capital
    Corporation, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to IKON s
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Corporate Documents  

3

.1

Amended and Restated Articles of
    Incorporation, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to IKON s 1997
     Form 10-K, 
    is incorporated herein by reference.

3

.2

Amendment to Amended and Restated
    Articles of Incorporation, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
    IKON s 1998
     Form 10-K, 
    is incorporated herein by reference.

3

.3

Code of Regulations, filed as
    Exhibit 3.2 to IKON s
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 1996, is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Instruments Defining the Rights
    of Security Holders  

Rights Agreement  

4

.1

Amended and Restated Rights
    Agreement dated as of June 18, 1997, filed as
    Exhibit 4.1 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 18, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference.

4

.2

Amendment No. 1 dated as of
    January 27, 2005 to the to the Amended and Restated Rights
    Agreement dated as of June 18, 1997, filed as
    Exhibit 4 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated January 27, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference.

$300 Million
    6 3 / 4 %
    Notes Due 2025 and Notes due 2027  

4

.3

Indenture dated as of
    December 11, 1995, between IKON and First Fidelity Bank,
    N.A., as Trustee, filed as Exhibit 4 to IKON s
    Registration Statement
     No. 33-64177, 
    is incorporated herein by reference

$225 Million
    7 3 / 4 %
    Notes due 2015  

4

.4

Indenture dated as of
    September 21, 2005 between IKON and The Bank of New York,
    filed as Exhibit 10.1 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated September 22, 2005, is incorporated herein by
    reference.

4

.5

Registration Rights Agreement
    dated as of September 21, 2005 between IKON and the Initial
    Purchasers of the Notes, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
    IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated September 22, 2005, is incorporated herein by
    reference.

Agreement with Commission
    pursuant to
     Regulation S-K, 
    Item 6.01(b) (4)(iii)  

4

.6

Pursuant to
     Regulation S-K, 
    Item 601(b) (4)(iii), IKON agrees to furnish to the
    Commission, upon request, a copy of other instruments defining
    the rights of holders of long-term debt of IKON and its
    subsidiaries.

Credit Facility  

10

.1

Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006, by and among IKON, as
    Borrower, the lenders referred to therein, Deutsche Bank
    Securities Inc., as Syndication Agent, PNC Bank National
    Association, as Syndication Agent, The Royal Bank of Scotland
    PLC, as Documentation Agent, LaSalle Bank National Association,
    as Documentation Agent, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as
    Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent, Swingline Lender, and
    Issuing Lender, and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC as Sole Lead
    Arranger and Sole Book Manager, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
    IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 28, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.

Leasing Programs  

10

.2

Program Agreement dated
    March 31, 2004, between IKON and General Electric Capital
    Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated April 6, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.

10

.3

Canadian Rider, dated
    June 30, 2004, among IKON Office Solutions, Inc., General
    Electric Capital Canada, Inc., as general partner of GE VFS
    Canada Limited Partnership Corporation, and IKON Office
    Solutions Northern Ltd., to the Program Agreement dated
    March 31, 2004 among IKON, General Electric Capital
    Corporation, and GE Capital Information Technology Solutions,
    Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.1 to IKON s
     Form 8-K 
    dated July 7, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.

10

.4

Amended and Restated Program
    Agreement dated as of April 1, 2006, by and among IKON,
    General Electric Capital Corporation and GE Capital Information
    Technology Solutions, Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
    IKON s
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, is incorporated
    herein by reference.

93

Table of Contents   

94

Table of Contents   

*

Copies of the exhibits will be
    furnished to any security holder of IKON upon payment of the
    reasonable cost of reproduction.

**

Management contract or compensatory
    plan or arrangement.

Filed herewith.

(b) The response to this portion of Item 15 is contained in
    Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) The response to this portion of Item 15 is
    contained on page 92 of this Report.

95

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has
    duly caused this report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 to be signed
    on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

IKON Office Solutions,
    Inc.

Date: December 1, 2006

By: 

/s/   Robert
    F. Woods 

(Robert F. Woods) 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the
    following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
    capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Matthew
    J. Espe  

(Matthew
    J. Espe) 

Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer)

December 1, 2006

/s/   Robert
    F. Woods  

(Robert
    F. Woods) 

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

December 1, 2006

/s/   Theodore
    E. Strand  

(Theodore
    E. Strand) 

Vice President and Controller 
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

December 1, 2006

/s/   Philip
    E. Cushing  

(Philip
    E. Cushing) 

Director

December 1, 2006

/s/   Thomas
    R. Gibson  

(Thomas
    R. Gibson) 

Director

December 1, 2006

/s/   Richard
    A. Jalkut  

(Richard
    A. Jalkut) 

Director

December 1, 2006

/s/   Arthur
    E. Johnson  

(Arthur
    E. Johnson) 

Director

December 1, 2006

/s/   Kurt
    M. Landgraf  

(Kurt
    M. Landgraf) 

Director

December 1, 2006

/s/   Gerald
    Luterman  

(Gerald
    Luterman) 

Director

December 1, 2006

/s/   William
    E.
    McCracken  

(William
    E. McCracken) 

Director

December 1, 2006

96

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   William
    L. Meddaugh  

(William
    L. Meddaugh) 

Director

December 1, 2006

/s/   Anthony
    P.
    Terracciano  

(Anthony
    P. Terracciano) 

Director

December 1, 2006

97

<EX-10.36>
 2
 w26203exv10w36.htm
 SENIOR EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT FOR MICHAEL KOHLSDORF

exv10w36 

Exhibit 10.36 

SENIOR EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

AGREEMENT , made and entered into as of the 10th day of May, 2004, by and between IKON Office
Solutions, Inc., an Ohio corporation with its principal office located at 70 Valley Stream Parkway,
Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355 (together with its successors and assigns permitted under this
Agreement, the   Company  ) and Michael Kohlsdorf, who currently resides at 1354 Fernwood Circle
Northeast, Atlanta, Georgia 30319 (the   Executive  

W     I     T     N     E     S     S     E     T     H   : 

WHEREAS, the Company desires to employ the Executive in a senior executive position and to
enter into an agreement embodying the terms of such employment;

WHEREAS, the Executive desires to accept such employment with the Company, subject to the
terms and provisions of this Employment Agreement;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual covenants contained herein and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is mutually acknowledged, the Company
and the Executive (together, the   Parties  ) agree as follows:

1.    Definitions   . 

(A)   Affiliate   of a Person shall mean a Person who directly or indirectly controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with, the Person specified.

(B)   Agreement   shall mean this Employment Agreement, which includes for all purposes its
Exhibits hereto.

(C)   Base Salary   shall mean the salary provided for in Section 4 or any increased salary
granted to the Executive pursuant to Section 4.

(D)   Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

(E)   Cause   shall mean:

(1) Executive fails to comply with any material written Company policy, as the same may from
time to time be adopted and/or modified by the Company, including, but not limited to, the
Company s Code of Ethics;

(2) Executive breaches his/her material obligations under the terms of this Agreement; or

(3) the Executive has committed an act of dishonesty, moral turpitude or theft against the
Company or has breached his/her duties of loyalty to the Company.

1 

(F)   Change in Control   shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:

(1) any  person,  as such term is currently used in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, becomes a  beneficial owner,  as such term is currently used in Rule 13d-3
promulgated under that act, of 20% or more of the Voting Stock of the Company;

(2) a majority of the Board consists of individuals other than Incumbent Directors, which term
means the members of the Board on the Effective Date;  provided   that  any individual
becoming a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election was supported
by a majority of the directors who then comprised the Incumbent Directors shall be considered to be
an Incumbent Director;

(3) the Company adopts any plan of liquidation providing for the distribution of all or
substantially all of its assets;

(4) 50% or more of the assets of the Company is disposed of pursuant to a merger,
consolidation or other transaction or series of transactions (unless the shareholders of the
Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other transaction or series of
transactions beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in substantially the same proportion as they
owned the Voting Stock of the Company, more than 50% of the Voting Stock or other ownership
interests of the entity or entities, if any, that succeed to the business of the Company); or

(5) the Company combines with another company and is the surviving corporation but,
immediately after the combination, the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the
combination hold 50% or less of the Voting Stock of the combined company, (there being excluded
from the number of shares held by such shareholders, but not from the Voting Stock of the combined
company, any shares received by Affiliates of such other company in exchange for stock of such
other company).

(G)   Claim   shall mean any claim, demand, request, investigation, dispute, controversy,
threat, discovery request, or request for testimony or information.

(H)   Committee   shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board;

(I)   Common Stock   shall mean common stock of the Company.

(J)   Constructive Termination Without Cause   shall mean a termination by the Executive of
his/her employment hereunder on 30 days  written notice given by him/her to the Company following
the occurrence, without his/her prior written consent, of any of the following events, unless the
Company shall have fully cured all grounds for such termination within 15 days after the Executive
gives notice thereof:

2 

(1) any reduction in his/her then current Base Salary or in his/her annual incentive bonus
award opportunity set forth herein;

(2) any material breach of any of the Company s obligations, representations or warranties in
this Agreement;

(3) any material diminution in his/her duties or the assignment to him/her of duties that
materially impair his/her ability to perform his/her duties;

(4) following any Change in Control, any relocation of the Company s principal office, or of
his/her own office as assigned to him/her by the Company, to a location more than 50 miles from
Malvern, Pennsylvania;

(5) following any Change in Control, any failure by the Company to continue in effect any
compensation plan in which the Executive participated immediately prior to such Change in Control
and which is material to the Executive s total compensation, including but not limited to the
Company s stock option, incentive compensation, deferred compensation, stock purchase, bonus and
other plans or any substitute plans adopted prior to the Change in Control, unless an equitable
arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to
such plan, or any failure by the Company to continue the Executive s participation therein (or in
such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis no less favorable to the Executive, both in terms
of the amount of benefits provided and the level of the Executive s participation relative to other
participants, as existed immediately prior to such Change in Control;

(6) following any Change in Control, any failure by the Company to continue to provide the
Executive with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by the Executive under any of the
Company s pension, life insurance, medical, health and accident, or disability plans in which the
Executive was participating immediately prior to such Change in Control, the taking of any action
by the Company which would directly or indirectly materially reduce any of such benefits or deprive
the Executive of any perquisite enjoyed by the Executive at the time of such Change in Control, or
the failure by the Company to maintain the vacation allowance provided in Section 7 with respect to
the Executive;

(7) following any Change in Control, any failure to retain Executive in an executive capacity
with the Person acquiring the Company, with duties and responsibilities of comparable scope to
Executive s duties and responsibilities immediately prior to such Change in Control; or

(8) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligation to
perform this Agreement by any successor to all or substantially all of the assets of the Company
within 15 days after a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction.

3 

(K)   Disability   shall mean Total Disability as defined in the Company s Long-Term Disability
Plan, as amended from time to time.

(L)   Effective Date   shall mean May 10, 2004.

(M)   Person   shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
joint venture, trust, estate, board, committee, agency, body, employee benefit plan, or other
person or entity.

(N)   Potential Change in Control   shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:

(1) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which will result in the
occurrence of a Change in Control;

(2) the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions which, if consummated, will constitute a Change in Control; or

(3) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a
Potential Change in Control has occurred.

(O)   Proceeding   shall mean any threatened or actual action, suit or proceeding, whether
civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, appellate or other.

(P)   Pro-Rata   shall mean a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days that the
Executive was employed in the applicable performance period (a fiscal year in the case of an annual
incentive bonus award) and the denominator of which shall be the number of days in the applicable
performance period.

(Q)   Term of Employment   shall mean the period specified in Section 2.

(R)   Termination Date   shall mean the date on which the Executive s employment with the
Company terminates.

(S)   Voting Stock   shall mean issued and outstanding capital stock or other securities of any
class or classes having general voting power, under ordinary circumstances in the absence of
contingencies, to elect, in the case of a corporation, the directors of such corporation and, in
the case of any other entity, the corresponding governing Person(s).

2.    Term of Agreement   . 

The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive under this Agreement, and the Executive
hereby accepts such employment, for the Term of Agreement. The initial Term of Agreement shall
commence as of the Effective Date and shall end on the second

  4 

anniversary thereof. Thereafter, the Term of Agreement shall be automatically extended for
additional one-year periods ( extension periods ) unless either party provides notice of
non-renewal at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or extension
period. Termination of Executive s employment as a result of non-renewal by the Company shall be
treated as a termination subject to the provisions of Section 8(D) (Termination without Cause) of
this Agreement. Notice of non-renewal by Executive shall be treated as a termination subject to
the provisions of Section 8(G) (Voluntary Termination) of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Term of Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the expiration of the
Initial Term and/or any extension period in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.

3.    Positions, Duties and Responsibilities   . 

(A) During the Term of Agreement, the Executive shall serve as Senior Vice President,
Enterprise Services of the Company, or shall hold such other title and perform such other functions
and duties as shall be determined by the Chief Executive Officer.

(B) During the Term of Agreement, Executive will (1) devote substantial and full-time
attention and energies to the business of the Company, particularly its services function, and
diligently perform all duties incident to his/her employment; (2) use his/her best efforts to
promote the interests and goodwill of the Company; and (3) perform such duties as may be assigned
to him/her by the CEO.

4.    Base Salary   . 

Commencing as of the Effective Date, the Executive shall be paid an annualized Base Salary of
$315,000, payable in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company. The Base Salary
shall be reviewed no less frequently than annually for increase in the discretion of the CEO and,
if applicable, the Board.

5.    Annual Incentive Award Opportunity   . 

The Executive shall be eligible for an annual incentive bonus award opportunity from the
Company in respect of each fiscal year of the Company that ends during the Term of Agreement.
He/she shall be eligible for an annual incentive bonus award opportunity of no less than fifty
percent (50%) of his/her annualized base salary, the achievement of which shall be based upon the
performance of the Company and the performance of the Executive. In addition, in the sole
discretion of the CEO, the Executive may be eligible for an additional annual overachievement bonus
award opportunity. To the extent earned, the Executive shall be paid his/her annual incentive
award at the same time that other senior-level executives receive their incentive awards.

6.   Intentionally left blank   

5 

7.    Other Benefits   . 

(A)   Other Executive Compensation Plans   .  During the Term of Agreement, the Executive
shall be entitled to participate in all compensation plans and programs that are, from time to
time, made generally available to senior executives of the Company, including, without limitation,
the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.

(B)   Employee Benefits   .  During the Term of Agreement, the Executive shall participate
in all employee benefit plans and programs made available generally to the Company s senior
executives, including, without limitation, pension, savings and other retirement plans or programs,
medical, dental, hospitalization, short-term and long-term disability and life insurance plans or
programs, accidental death and dismemberment protection, travel accident insurance, and any other
employee welfare or retirement benefit plans or programs that may be sponsored by the Company from
time to time, including any plans or programs that supplement the above-listed types of plans or
programs, whether funded or unfunded.

(C)   Expenses   .  The Executive is authorized to incur reasonable expenses in carrying
out his/her duties and responsibilities hereunder and the Company shall promptly reimburse him/her
for all such expenses, subject to documentation in accordance with reasonable policies of the
Company.

(D)   Vacation   .  Executive shall be entitled to four weeks paid vacation per year.

8.    Termination of Employment   . 

(A)   Termination Due to Death   .  In the event that the Executive s employment hereunder
is terminated due to his/her death, his/her estate or his/her beneficiaries (as the case may be)
shall be entitled to:

(1) Base Salary through the end of the month in which his/her death occurs;

(2) a Pro-Rata annual incentive bonus award for the fiscal year in which his/her death occurs,
based on the Executive s annual incentive bonus award opportunity for the year of death (excluding
any overachievement bonus award opportunity), payable in a lump sum promptly following his/her
death, regardless of the Executive s and Company s performance during such fiscal year;

(3) the continued right to exercise each outstanding stock option for a period of 12 months
(provided, however, that no options can be exercised beyond their expiration date), all such
options to become fully vested and exercisable as of the date of his/her death, and the immediate
vesting of all shares of restricted stock as of the date of his/her death;

6 

(4) immediate vesting in the Company s Retirement Savings Plan (or any successor 401(k) plan),
pension plan, supplemental retirement plan and deferred compensation plans; and

(5) the benefits described in Section 8(H)(1).

(B)   Termination Due to Disability   .  In the event that the Executive s employment
hereunder is terminated due to Disability, he/she shall be entitled to the following:

(1) periodic disability payments in accordance with the Company s Long-Term Disability Plan;

(2) Base Salary through the end of the month in which the Termination Date occurs;

(3) a Pro-Rata annual incentive bonus award for the fiscal year in which his/her Termination
Date occurs, based on the Executive s annual incentive bonus award opportunity for such fiscal year
(excluding any overachievement bonus award opportunity), payable in a lump sum promptly following
the Termination Date, regardless of the Executive s and Company s performance during such fiscal
year;

(4) the continued right to exercise each outstanding stock option for a period of 12 months
(provided, however, that no options can be exercised beyond their expiration date), all such
options to become fully vested and exercisable as of the Termination Date, and the immediate
vesting of all shares of restricted stock as of the Termination Date; and

(5) continued participation, for a period of two years from the Termination Date, in all
medical, dental, vision, hospitalization, disability and life insurance coverages and in all other
employee welfare benefit plans, programs and arrangements in which he/she was participating on the
date on which his/her employment terminates, on terms and conditions that are no less favorable to
him/her than those that applied on such date, and with COBRA benefits commencing thereafter;
 provided   that  the Company s obligation under this Section 8(B)(5) shall be reduced
to the extent that equivalent coverages and benefits (determined on a coverage-by-coverage and
benefit-by-benefit basis) are provided under the plans, programs or arrangements of a subsequent
employer; and

(6) immediate vesting in the Company s Retirement Savings Plan (or any successor 401(k) plan),
pension plan, supplemental retirement plan and deferred compensation plans; and

(7) the benefits described in Section 8(H)(1).

7 

No termination of the Executive s employment for Disability shall be effective until the
Company first gives 15 days written notice of such termination to Executive.

(C)   Termination by the Company for Cause   . 

(1) No termination of the Executive s employment hereunder by the Company for Cause shall be
effective unless the provisions of this Section 8(C)(1) shall have been complied with. The
Executive shall be given written notice by the CEO of the intention to terminate him/her for Cause,
such notice to state in detail the particular circumstances that constitute the grounds on which
the proposed termination for Cause is based. Except in the case of a termination for Cause
pursuant to Section 1(E)(1) or Section 1(E)(3) which will be effective, in the sole discretion of
the CEO, on the date set forth in the notice, the Executive shall have 15 days after receiving such
notice in which to cure such grounds, to the extent such cure is possible. If he/she fails to cure
such grounds, his/her employment hereunder shall thereupon be terminated for Cause.

(2) In the event that the Executive s employment hereunder is terminated by the Company
for Cause in accordance with Section 8(C)(1), he/she shall be entitled to:

(A) 30 days to exercise any stock option which is vested and exercisable on the Termination
Date (provided, however, that no options shall be exercisable after their expiration date). All
stock options which are not vested and exercisable as of the Termination Date will be forfeited,
and all restricted stock which has not vested and been distributed as of the Termination Date will
be forfeited; and

(B) the benefits described in Section 8(H)(1).

(D)   Termination Without Cause   .  In the event that the Executive s employment hereunder
is terminated by the Company without Cause and Sections 8(A) (death), (B) (disability) and (F)
(change in control) do not apply, and provided Executive executes a full release satisfactory to
the Company, then the Executive shall be entitled to:

(1) Base Salary for a two-year period ending on the second anniversary of the Termination
Date, payable as provided in Section 

(2) a Pro-Rata annual incentive award for the fiscal year in which the Termination Date
occurs, based on the Executive s annual bonus opportunity for such fiscal year (excluding any
overachievement bonus opportunity), payable in a lump sum promptly following the Termination Date,
regardless of the Executive s and Company s performance during such fiscal year;

(3) an amount equal to twice the Executive s annual bonus opportunity for the year of
termination (excluding any overachievement bonus opportunity),

8 

payable in equal installments over the two-year period ending on the second anniversary of the
Termination Date;

(4) the continued right to exercise any vested and exercisable stock option for a minimum
period of 12 months from the Termination Date (provided, however, that no options can be exercised
after their expiration date). During the 12-month period following the Termination Date, all
unvested stock options will continue to vest as if the Executive were still employed with the
Company. All stock options which are not vested or exercised as of 12 months following the
Termination Date will be forfeited. In addition, all restricted stock which has not been
distributed as of the Termination Date will be forfeited;

(5) continued participation, through the second anniversary of the Termination Date, in all
medical, dental, vision, hospitalization, disability and life insurance coverages and in all other
employee welfare benefit plans, programs and arrangements in which he/she or his/her family members
were participating on such date, on terms and conditions that are no less favorable to him/her than
those that applied on such date and with COBRA benefits commencing thereafter;  provided 
 that  the Company s obligation under this Section 8(D)(5) shall be reduced to the extent
that equivalent coverages and benefits (determined on a coverage-by-coverage and benefit-by-benefit
basis) are provided under the plans, programs or arrangements of a subsequent employer;

(6) immediate vesting in the Company s Retirement Savings Plan (or any successor 401(k) plan),
pension plan, supplemental retirement plan, and deferred compensation plans; and

(7) the benefits described in Section 8(H)(1).

(E)   Constructive Termination Without Cause   .  In the event that: (i) a Constructive
Termination Without Cause occurs and (ii) Section 8(F) (change in control) does not apply, then the
Executive shall have the same entitlements as provided under Section 8(D) for a termination by the
Company without Cause.

(F)   Termination Without Cause Following a Change in Control or Potential Change in
Control   .  In the event that: (i) the Executive s employment hereunder is terminated (A)
through a Constructive Termination without Cause or (B) by the Company without Cause and (ii) the
termination of employment occurs within two years following a Change in Control, and provided
Executive executes a full release satisfactory to the Company, then the Executive shall be entitled
to:

(1) Base Salary through the second anniversary of the Termination Date, payable as provided in
Section 

(2) a Pro-Rata annual incentive bonus award for the fiscal year in which the Termination Date
occurs based on the Executive s annual incentive bonus award

9 

opportunity for such fiscal year (excluding any overachievement bonus award opportunity), payable
in a lump sum promptly following the Termination Date, regardless of the Executive s and Company s
performance during such fiscal year;

(3) an amount equal to twice the Executive s annual bonus opportunity for the year of
termination (excluding any overachievement bonus award opportunity) payable in equal installments
over the 24-month period for which Base Salary is continued;

(4) the continued right to exercise any outstanding stock option for a period of 3 months from
the Termination Date (provided, however, that no options may be exercised after their expiration
date), all such options to become fully vested and exercisable as of the Termination Date;

(5) the immediate vesting of all shares of restricted stock of the Company as of the
Termination Date;

(6) an amount equal to the Company s contributions to which the Executive would have been
entitled under the Company s Retirement Savings Plan (or any successor thereto) if the Executive
had continued working for the Company and the Retirement Savings Plan continued in force during the
twenty-four months following the Termination Date ( Separation Period ) at the highest annual rate
of Base Salary achieved during the Executive s period of actual employment with the Company, and
making the maximum amount of employee contributions, if any, as are required under such plan;

(7) an amount equal to the excess of (i) the present value of the benefits to which the
Executive would be entitled under the Company s pension plan and Company s supplemental retirement
plan (and any successor thereto) if the Executive had continued working for the Company for a
period of 24 months following the Termination Date at the highest annual rate of Base Salary
achieved during the Executive s period of actual employment with the Company, and the pension plan
continued in force during the Separation Period, over (ii) the present value of the benefits to
which the Executive is actually entitled under the Company s pension plan and supplemental
retirement plan, each computed as of the date of the Executive s Date of Termination, with present
values to be determined using the discount rate used by the Pension Benefits Guaranty Corporation
to calculate the benefit liabilities under the pension plan in the event of a plan termination on
the Date of Termination, compounded monthly, the mortality tables prescribed in the Company s
Pension Plan for determining actuarial equivalence, and the reduction factor (if any) for the early
commencement of pension payments based on the Executive s age on the last day of the 24th month
following the Termination Date;

(8) immediate vesting in the Company s Retirement Savings Plan (or any successor 401(k) plan),
pension plan, supplemental retirement plan and deferred compensation plans;

10 

(9) continued participation, through the second anniversary of the Termination Date, in all
medical, dental, vision, hospitalization, disability and life insurance coverages and in all other
employee welfare benefit plans, programs and arrangements in which he/she or his/her family members
were participating on such date, on terms and conditions that are no less favorable to him/her than
those that applied on such date and with COBRA benefits commencing thereafter, provided that the
Company s obligation under this Section 8(F)(9) shall be reduced to the extent that equivalent
coverages and benefits (determined on a coverage-by-coverage and benefit-by-benefit basis) are
provided under the plans, programs or arrangements of a subsequent employer; and

(10) the benefits described in Section 8(H)(1).

For purposes of this Section 8(F), if preceded by a Potential Change in Control, any of the
following events (if such event occurs within two years following such Potential Change in Control)
shall be deemed to be a Termination of Executive s Employment without Cause following a Change in
Control: (i) the Executive s employment is terminated without Cause and such termination is at the
request or direction of or pursuant to negotiations with a Person who has entered into an agreement
with the Company the consummation of which will constitute a Change in Control; (ii) the
Executive s employment is terminated through a Constructive Termination Without Cause and the
circumstances or events which constitute the basis for Executive s claim of Constructive
Termination occur at the request or direction of, or pursuant to negotiations with, such Person, or
(iii) the Executive s employment is terminated without Cause and such termination is otherwise in
connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control which actually occurs.

The Company agrees that the Executive is not required to seek other employment or to attempt
in any way to reduce amounts payable to Executive under this Section 8(F), and the amounts payable
to pursuant to this Section 8(F) shall not be reduced by any amounts earned by or payable to
Executive, except as provided in Section 8(F)(9).

(G)   Voluntary Termination   .  In the event that the Executive terminates his/her
employment with the Company on his/her own initiative (other than by death, for Disability, by a
Constructive Termination without Cause), then he/she shall have the same entitlements as provided
in Section 8(C)(2) in the case of a termination by the Company for Cause. A voluntary termination
under this Section 8(G) shall be effective upon written notice to the Company and shall not be
deemed a breach of this Agreement.

(H)   Miscellaneous   . 

(1) On any termination of the Executive s employment hereunder, he/she shall be entitled to:

(A) Base Salary through the Termination Date;

(B) any amounts due him/her under Section 

11 

(C) a lump-sum payment in respect of accrued but unused vacation days at his/her Base Salary
rate in effect as of the Termination Date;

(D) payment, promptly when due, of all amounts owed to him/her in connection with the
termination; and

(E) other benefits, if any, in accordance with applicable plans, programs and arrangements of
the Company. This provision will permit the Executive to elect to take advantage of any provisions
of, or changes to, the IKON benefit plans which are applicable to IKON employees generally
(including, without limitation, provisions relating to the vesting/exercisability of stock options
in the event of retirement or disability),  provided   that  Executive opts to have
such general provisions applied on his/her behalf instead of those set forth in this Agreement. In
no event, however, will this provision entitle Executive to duplicative or double benefits, nor
shall he/she be eligible to receive payments under any severance program of the Company applicable
to employees generally.

(2) Any amounts due under this Section 8 are considered to be reasonable by the Company and
are not in the nature of a penalty.

9.    Golden Parachute Tax   .  In the event that any payment or benefit made or provided to
or for the benefit of the Executive in connection with this Agreement, the Executive s employment
with the Company, or the termination thereof (a  Payment ) is determined to be subject to any
excise tax ( Excise Tax ) imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (or any successor to such Section),
the Company shall pay to the Executive, prior to the time any Excise Tax is payable with respect to
such Payment (through withholding or otherwise), an additional amount which, after the imposition
of all income, employment, excise and other taxes, penalties and interest thereon, is equal to the
sum of (i) the Excise Tax on such Payment plus (ii) any penalty and interest assessments associated
with such Excise Tax. The determination of whether any Payment is subject to an Excise Tax and, if
so, the amount to be paid by the Company to the Executive and the time of payment shall be made by
an independent auditor (the  Auditor ) selected jointly by the Parties and paid by the Company.
Unless the Executive agrees otherwise in writing, the Auditor shall be a nationally recognized
United States public accounting firm that has not, during the two years preceding the date of its
selection, acted in any way on behalf of the Company or any of its Affiliates. If the Parties
cannot agree on the firm to serve as the Auditor, then the Parties shall each select one accounting
firm and those two firms shall jointly select the accounting firm to serve as the Auditor.

10.    Indemnification; D O Insurance   . 

(A)   Indemnification   .  The Company agrees that: (i) if the Executive is made a party,
or is threatened to be made a party, to any Proceeding by reason of the fact that he/she is or was
a director, officer, employee, agent, manager, consultant or representative of the Company or is or
was serving at the request of the Company or any of its Affiliates as a director, officer, member,
employee, agent, manager, consultant or representative of another

  12 

Person or (ii) if any Claim is made, or threatened to be made, that arises out of or relates
to this Agreement or the Executive s service hereunder or in any of the foregoing capacities, then
the Executive shall promptly be indemnified and held harmless by the Company for any Claims brought
by a third party against the Executive to the fullest extent legally permitted or authorized by the
Company s Articles of Incorporation, Code of Regulations or Board resolutions or by the laws of the
State of Ohio, against any and all costs, expenses, liabilities and losses (including, without
limitation, attorney s fees, judgments, interest, expenses of investigation, penalties, fines,
ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) incurred or suffered
by the Executive in connection therewith, and such indemnification shall continue as to the
Executive even if he/she has ceased to be a director, member, employee, agent, manager, consultant
or representative of the Company or other Person and shall inure to the benefit of the Executive s
heirs, executors and administrators. The Company shall advance to the Executive all costs and
expenses incurred by him/her in connection with any such Proceeding or Claim within 20 days after
receiving written notice requesting such an advance. Such notice shall include, to the extent
required by applicable law, an undertaking by the Executive to repay the amount advanced if he/she
is ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification against such costs and expenses.

(B)   D O Insurance   .  During the Term of Agreement and for a period of six years
thereafter, the Company shall keep in place a directors  and officers  liability insurance policy
(or policies) providing comprehensive coverage to the Executive to the extent that the Company
provides such coverage for any other senior executive or director.

11.    Covenants   . 

(A)   Confidentiality   .  During the Term of Agreement and thereafter, the Executive shall
not, without the prior written consent of the Company, divulge, disclose or make accessible to any
Person any confidential non-public document, record or information concerning the business or
affairs of the Company that he/she has acquired in the course of his/her employment hereunder,
except (i) to the Company or to any authorized (or apparently authorized) agent or representative
of the Company, (ii) to authorized third parties in connection with performing his/her duties under
this Agreement, or (iii) when required to do so by law or by a court, governmental agency,
legislative body, or other Person with apparent jurisdiction to order him/her to divulge, disclose
or make accessible such information;  provided   that  these restrictions shall not
apply to any document, record or other information that: (i) has previously been disclosed to the
public, or is in the public domain, other than as a result of the Executive s breach of this
Section 11(A), or (ii) is known or generally available within any trade or industry of the Company.

(B)   Non-Solicitation   .  During the twenty-four (24)-month period that commences on the
Termination Date and ends on the second anniversary of the Termination Date, the Executive shall
not without the prior consent of the Company:

(a) solicit, on his/her own behalf or on behalf of any other Person, any individual known by
the Executive to be an employee of the Company to instead become an employee of any Person not
affiliated with the Company; or

13 

(b) solicit, on his/her own behalf or on behalf of any other Person, any Person known by the
Executive to be customer of, or vendor to, the Company to cease to be a customer or vendor of the
Company and/or to become a customer of, or vendor to, any Person not affiliated with the Company.

(C)   Non-Competition  . During the twenty-four (24)-month period that commences on the
Termination Date and ends on the second anniversary of the Termination Date, the Executive shall
not, without the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly own, manage, operate, join,
control or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or be employed by or
otherwise connected in any substantial manner with any business which directly or indirectly
competes to a material extent with any line of business of the Company or its subsidiaries which
was operated by the Company or its subsidiaries at the Termination Date; provided that nothing in
this paragraph shall prohibit the Executive from acquiring up to 5% of any class of outstanding
equity securities of any corporation whose equity securities are regularly traded on a national
securities exchange or in the  over-the-counter market. 

The foregoing noncompetition restriction of this Section 11(C) shall not apply following a
Change of Control Event if (a) the Executive s employment has been terminated by the Company
without Cause within two years following such Change in Control Event, (b) the Executive terminates
his/her employment as the result of a Constructive Termination within two years following such
Change in Control Event or (c) the Company elects, within two years following such Change in
Control Event, not to extend the term of employment.

The foregoing noncompetition restriction of this Section 11(C) shall not apply following a
Potential Change in Control if: (i) the Executive s employment is terminated without Cause within
two years following such Potential Change in Control, and such termination is at the request or
direction of or pursuant to negotiations with a Person who has entered into an agreement with the
Company the consummation of which will constitute a Change in Control; (ii) the Executive s
employment is terminated through a Constructive Discharge without Cause within two years following
such Potential Change in Control, and the circumstances or events which constitute the basis for
Executive s claim of Constructive Discharge occur at the request or direction of, or pursuant to
negotiations with, such Person, iii) the Company elects, within two years following such Potential
Change in Control, not to extend the term of employment, and such election was at the request or
direction of or pursuant to negotiations with such Person; or iv) the Executive s employment is
terminated without Cause within two years following such Potential Change in Control and such
termination is otherwise in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control which
actually occurs.

12.    Assignability; Binding Nature   . 

This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their
respective successors, heirs (in the case of the Executive) and assigns. No rights or obligations
of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by the

  14 

Company except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a
merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or a sale or liquidation
of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company;  provided   that  the
assignee or transferee is the successor to all or substantially all of the assets of the Company
and such assignee or transferee assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company, as
contained in this Agreement, either contractually or as a matter of law. In the event of any sale
of assets or liquidation as described in the preceding sentence, the Company shall use its best
efforts to cause such assignee or transferee to expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and
duties of the Company hereunder. No rights or obligations of the Executive under this Agreement
may be assigned or transferred by the Executive other than his/her rights to compensation and
benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law, except as provided in Section
16(E).

13.    Representations   . 

(A)   The Company s Representations   .  The Company represents and warrants that (i) it is
fully authorized by action of its Board (and of any other Person or body whose action is required)
to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations under it; (ii) the execution, delivery
and performance of this Agreement by the Company does not violate any applicable law, regulation,
order, judgment or decree or any agreement, plan or corporate governance document of the Company;
and (iii) upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Parties, this Agreement shall be
the valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with
its terms, except to the extent enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency
or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors  rights generally.

(B)   The Executive s Representations   .  The Executive represents and warrants that, to
the best of his/her knowledge and belief, (i) delivery and performance of this Agreement by him/her
does not violate any applicable law, regulation, order, judgment or decree or any agreement to
which the Executive is a party or by which he/she is bound, and (ii) upon the execution and
delivery of this Agreement by the Parties, this Agreement shall be the valid and binding obligation
of the Executive, enforceable against him/her in accordance with its terms, except to the extent
enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the
enforcement of creditors  rights generally.

14.    Resolution of Disputes   . 

Any Claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Executive s employment with the
Company or the termination thereof shall be resolved by binding confidential arbitration, to be
held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the
American Arbitration Association. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be
entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.

15 

15.    Notices   . 

Any notice, consent, demand, request, or other communication given to a Person in connection
with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given to such Person (i)
when delivered personally to such Person or (ii), provided that a written acknowledgment of receipt
is obtained, two days after being sent by prepaid certified or registered mail, or by a nationally
recognized overnight courier, to the address specified below for such Person (or to such other
address as such Person shall have specified by ten days advance notice given in accordance with
this Section 15), or (iii) in the case of the Company only, on the first business day after it is
sent by facsimile to the facsimile number set forth for the Company (or to such other facsimile
number as the Company shall have specified by ten days advance notice given in accordance with this
Section 15), with a confirmatory copy sent by certified or registered mail or by overnight courier
to the Company in accordance with this Section 15.

If to the Company:

IKON Office Solutions, Inc. 

70 Valley Stream Parkway 

Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355 

Attn: Chief Executive Officer 

Facsimile #: 610-725-8279 

If to the Executive: 

Michael Kohlsdorf, at the last address known
to the Company (with a copy to the Executive at the Company s
address) 

If to a beneficiary
of the Executive:

The address most recently specified by the Executive or
beneficiary through notice given in accordance with this
Section 15. 

16.    Miscellaneous   . 

(A)   Entire Agreement   .  This Agreement contains the entire understanding and agreement
between the Parties concerning the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements,
understandings, discussions, negotiations and undertakings, whether written or oral, between the
Parties with respect thereto.

(B)   Severability   .  In the event that any provision or portion of this Agreement shall
be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, in whole or in part, the remaining
provisions of this Agreement shall be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect
to the fullest extent permitted by law so as to achieve the purposes of this Agreement.

(C)   Amendment or Waiver   .  No provision in this Agreement may be amended unless such
amendment is set forth in a writing signed by the Parties. No waiver by either Party of any breach
of any condition or provision contained in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any similar
or dissimilar condition or provision at the same or any prior

  16 

or subsequent time. To be effective, any waiver must be set forth in a writing signed by the
waiving Party.

(D)   Headings   .  The headings of the Sections contained in this Agreement are for
convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any
provision of this Agreement.

(E)   Beneficiaries/References   .  The Executive shall be entitled, to the extent
permitted under any applicable law, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive
any compensation or benefit hereunder following the Executive s death by giving the Company written
notice thereof. In the event of the Executive s death or a judicial determination of his/her
incompetence, references in this Agreement to the Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to
refer to his/her beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.

(F)   Survivorship   .  Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the respective
rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall survive any termination of the Executive s
employment.

(G)   Governing Law/Jurisdiction   .  This Agreement shall be governed, construed,
performed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without
reference to principles of conflict of laws.

(H)   Counterparts   .  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts.

(I)   Employee Benefit Plans.   In the event that the terms of any of the Company s
employee benefit plans provide for the vesting or distribution of benefits on a date earlier than
the date set forth in this Agreement, such earlier date shall prevail.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the
date set forth above:

The Company  

By: 

Matthew J. Espe 

Chairman, President   CEO 

The Executive  

Michael Kohlsdorf 

17 

</EX-10.36>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 w26203exv12w1.htm
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1 

IKON OFFICE SOLUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
(dollars in thousands) 

*

Estimated
interest approximates one-third of rental expense.

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21>
 4
 w26203exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF IKON

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT 

The registrant is IKON Office Solutions, Inc., an Ohio corporation, which has no parent. The
following sets forth information with respect to IKON Office Solutions, Inc. s subsidiaries as of
September 30, 2006.

State or other  

jurisdiction of  

% Voting Securities  
       
      Incorporation or  

Subsidiary  
       
      Owned (by whom)  
       
      organization  

IKON Document Services Limited (Ireland)

100% IKON 
       
     Ireland 

IKON Office Solutions A/S (Denmark) (IOSD)

100% IKON 
       
     Denmark 

IKON Office Solutions AB

100% IOSD 
       
     Sweden 

IKON Office Solutions Group PLC (IOSG)

100% IKON 
       
     United Kingdom 

IKON Office Solutions Europe PLC (IOSE)

100% IOSG 
       
     United Kingdom 

IKON Office Solutions PLC (IOSPLC)

100% IOSE 
       
     United Kingdom 

IKON Capital PLC

100% IOSPLC 
       
     United Kingdom 

IKON Office Solutions Holding GmbH (IOSH)

100% IOSE 
       
     Germany 

IKON Office Solutions GmbH Hamburg

100% IOSH 
       
     Germany 

IKON Office Solutions GmbH Leipzig

70% IOSH/30% Uwe Paul 
       
     Germany 

IKON Leasing GmbH

100% IOSH 
       
     Germany 

IKON Office Solutions Italia S.r.l.

100% IOSE 
       
     Italy 

IKON Office Solutions Netherlands B.V.

100%IOSE 
       
     Netherlands 

IKON Office Solutions Spain SLU

100% IOSE 
       
     Spain 

IKON Office Solutions, SARL

100% IOSE 
       
     Switzerland 

IKON Office Solutions West, Inc.

100% IKON 
       
     Delaware 

INA North America Holdings, Inc. (INA)

100% IKON 
       
     Delaware 

IKON Baja, S.A. de C.V.

99.5%INA/.5% IKON 
       
     Mexico 

IKON Office Solutions Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

99.99%INA/0.01% IKON 
       
     Mexico 

IKON Office Solutions, Inc. (Canada) (IOS-Canada)

100% INA 
       
     Canada 

IKON Office Solutions Dublin Limited

100% IOS-Canada 
       
      United Kingdom  

IKON Office Solutions (Holdings) France S.A.S. (IOSHF)

100% IKON 
       
     France 

IKON Office Solutions France S.A.S.

100% IOSHF 
       
     France 

Upshur Coals Corporation

100% IKON 
       
     West Virginia 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 w26203exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

exv23 

Exhibit 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements on
Forms S-4 and S-8 of IKON Office Solutions, Inc. of our report dated December 1, 2006 relating to
the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Philadelphia, PA 
December 1, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 w26203exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
    EXCHANGE ACT
     RULE 13a-14(a)  
    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
    OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, Matthew J. Espe, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of IKON Office Solutions, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/  MATTHEW
    J. ESPE

Matthew J. Espe 
    Chairman and Chief Executive 
    Officer 

Date: December 1, 2006

98

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 w26203exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
    EXCHANGE ACT
     RULE 13a-14(a)  
    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
    OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, Robert F. Woods, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of IKON Office Solutions, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/  ROBERT
    F. WOODS

Robert F. Woods 
    Senior Vice President and Chief 
    Financial Officer 

Date: December 1, 2006

99

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 w26203exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
    OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002*  

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002, I, Matthew J. Espe, Chief Executive Officer of IKON
    Office Solutions, Inc. (the  Company ), do hereby
    certify with respect to the Annual Report of the Company on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 (the
     Report ) that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/  MATTHEW
    J. ESPE

Matthew J. Espe 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

Date: December 1, 2006

*

The foregoing certification is
    being furnished solely pursuant to Section 906 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 1350 of Chapter 63
    of Title 18 of the United States Code) and it is not being
    filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

100

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 w26203exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
    OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002*  

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002, I, Robert F. Woods, Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of IKON Office Solutions, Inc. (the
     Company ), do hereby certify with respect to the
    Annual Report of the Company on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 (the
     Report ) that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/  ROBERT
    F. WOODS

Robert F. Woods 
    Senior Vice President and Chief 
    Financial Officer 

Date: December 1, 2006

*

The foregoing certification is
    being furnished solely pursuant to Section 906 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 1350 of Chapter 63
    of Title 18 of the United States Code) and it is not being
    filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

101

</EX-32.2>

