<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061128_10-K_edgar_data_3545_0000003545-06-000072_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2959755</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>273475</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2086802</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>47</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000003545-06-000072.hdr.sgml : 20061128
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061128161028
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000003545-06-000072
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061114
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061128
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061128

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALICO INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000003545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION - CROPS [0100]
		IRS NUMBER:				590906081
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-00261
		FILM NUMBER:		061242362

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 338
		STREET 2:		640 SOUTH MAIN STREET
		CITY:			LA BELLE
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33935
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8136752966

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		640 SOUTH MAIN STREET
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 338
		CITY:			LA BELLE
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33935

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALICO LAND DEVELOPMENT CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19740219

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Gqm5828dILI7+VjFWluUJL3DURraxDSIh59ZgynT941f4BhuMBnhrP4Ar4SBgNIZ
 BXGi3noNSfTwp3IXj3p0rg==

 0000003545-06-000072.txt : 20061128

10-K
 1
 f10k1114106.htm
 FORM 10K

Shell Company

UNITED
      STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       Washington,
      D.C. 20549  

       Form
      10-K  

X     ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
      1934 

For
      the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006  

OR 

TRANSITION
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
      1934 

For
      the transition period from                                   
            
      to

Commission
      file number 0-261  

ALICO,
      INC.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Florida                                                                                  
         59-0906081  

                                               (State
      or other jurisdiction of
      incorporation               
        
        IRS
      Employer 

or
      organization)                                                                   
identification number 

P.O.
      Box 338, La Belle,
      Florida                                     
33975  

                                               (Address
      of principal executive
      offices)                         
 Zip code 

Registrant s
      telephone number including                        
         (863)
      675-2966  

                                                 area
      code 

SECURITIES
      REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: 

Title of
      class:                                       
Name of each exchange on which registered: 

                                            COMMON
      CAPITAL STOCK, $1.00 Par value,
      Non-cumulative                          
NASDAQ  

SECURITIES
      REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: 

None 

1 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as define
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 

Yes          No
         X  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 

Yes          No      X  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that such registrant was
      required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filings
      requirements for the past 90 days. 

Yes      X          No 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in
      rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act) 

Yes      X          No 

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 or
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      form 10-K. 

Yes          No      X  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act ((Check
      one): 

Large
      accelerated filer           
      Accelerated filer    X                                   
      Non-accelerated filer 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b
      of the Exchange Act.) 

Yes          No
         X  

The
      aggregate market value of the voting and nonvoting common equity held by
      non-affiliates based on the average bid and asked price, as quoted on the NASDAQ
      as of February 28, 2006 (the last business day of Alico s most recently
      completed second fiscal quarter) was $165,357,190. There were 7,368,612 shares
      of stock outstanding at October 31, 2006. 

Documents
      Incorporated by Reference: 

Portions
      of the Proxy Statement of Registrant to be dated on or before December 31,
      2006
      are incorporated by reference in Part III of this report. 

2 

INDEX  

ALICO,
      INC.  

       FORM
      10-K  

       For
      the year ended August 31, 2006  

Part
      I

Item
                1, business. 

Item
                1A, risk factors. 

Item
                1B, unresolved staff comments. 

Item
                2, properties. 

Item
                3, legal proceedings. 

Item
                4, submission of matters to a vote of security
                holders. 

Part
      II

Item
                5, market for registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and
                issuer purchases of equity
                securities. 

Item
                6, selected financial data. 

Item
                7, management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
                of operations. 

Item
                7A, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market
                risk. 

Item
                8, financial statements and supplementary
                data. 

Item
                9, changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and
                financial disclosure. 

Item
                9A, control and procedures. 

Item
                9B, other information. 

Part
      III 

Item
                10, directors and executive officers of the
                registrant. 

Item
                11, executive compensation. 

Item
                12, security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
                and
                related stockholder matters. 

Item
                13, certain relationships and related
                transactions. 

Item
                14, principal accountants  fees and
                services. 

Part
      IV

Item
                15, exhibits and financial statement
                schedules. 

Signatures. 

3 

PART
      I   

       Item
      1. Business.  

Alico,
      Inc. (the "Company"), which was formed February 29, 1960 as a spin-off of the
      Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company, is a land management company operating
      in
      Central and Southwest Florida. The Company's primary asset is 136,605 acres
      of land located in Collier, Glades, Hendry, Lee and Polk Counties. (See Item
      2
      for location and acreage by current primary use.) The Company is involved in
      a
      variety of agribusiness pursuits in addition to land leasing and rentals, rock
      and sand mining and real estate sales activities. 

The
      Company's land is managed for multiple uses wherever possible. For example,
      cattle ranching, forestry and land leased for farming, grazing, recreation
      and
      oil exploration utilize the same acreage in some instances. 

The
      charts below outline the relative contribution of each operation to the
      operating revenue, profit and total assets of the Company during the past three
      years (all revenues are from external customers within the United
      States): 

4 

5 

The
      Company is not in the retail land sales and development business, except through
      its wholly owned subsidiary, Saddlebag Lake Resorts, Inc. However, the Company
      has from time to time sold properties which, in the judgment of Management
      and
      the Board of Directors,   were  
      surplus
      to the Company's primary operations. Additionally, the Company s wholly owned
      subsidiary, Alico-Agri, Ltd., has also engaged in bulk land sales. The Company
      recently hired a Vice President of Real Estate to work with senior management
      and the Board of Directors to enhance the planning and strategic positioning
      of
      all Company owned land. This position will also oversee the entitlement of
      the
      Company's land assets in order to preserve rights should the Company choose
      to
      develop property in the future. 

Subsidiary
      Operations  

The
      Company has five wholly owned subsidiaries: Agri-Insurance Company, Ltd.
      ("Agri"), Alico-Agri, Ltd. ( Alico-Agri ), Alico Plant World, LLC ( Plant
      World ), Bowen Brothers Fruit LLC ( Bowen ), and Saddlebag Lake Resorts, Inc.
      ( Saddlebag ).  

Agri  

Agri,
      formed during fiscal 2000, was created to write crop insurance against
      catastrophic losses due to weather and disease. Independent third party
      actuaries compute premiums and coverage amounts for policies issued by Agri.

Agri
      hires independent actuaries and underwriters to set premiums for indemnities
      quoted and to establish underwriting considerations. Premiums vary depending
      upon the size of the property, its age and revenue-producing history, and the
      proximity of the insured property to known disease-prone areas or other insured
      hazards. 

Agri
      provided coverage for Tri-County Groves, LLC, a subsidiary of Atlantic Blue
      Trust, Inc., the holder of approximately 47.4% of the Company s common stock at
      the time the coverage was issued, in fiscal year 2004. The coverage term was
      from August 2004 to July 2005. Total coverage under the policy was $2.7 million,
      and the premium collected was $45 thousand during the coverage
      term. 

Additionally,
      Agri directly underwrote catastrophic business interruption coverage for its
      parent company, Alico, Inc., insuring all but two of Alico s citrus groves
      during fiscal years 2005 and 2004. The total coverage under the policy was
      $34.0
      million and $28.5 million for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. Premiums
      charged for the policy were $1.5 million and $1.1 million during fiscal years
      2005 and 2004, respectively. Alico s remaining two groves were insured by Agri
      during calendar years 2004. The coverage provided under this policy was $3.7
      million and the premium charged was $98 thousand during calendar year
      2004. 

Alico-Agri  

Alico-Agri,
      Ltd. was formed during fiscal year 2003 to manage the real estate holdings
      of
      Agri. The partnership allows Alico to provide management and administrative
      services so that Agri can focus on insurance issues. Agri transferred all of
      its
      property holdings and the related contracts to Alico-Agri for a 99% partnership
      interest. Alico, the managing partner, transferred cash for a 1% interest in
      the
      partnership. 

6 

Plant
      World  

In
      September 2004, the Company, through Alico-Agri, purchased the assets of La
      Belle Plant World, Inc. a wholesale grower and shipper of vegetable transplants
      to commercial farmers. The purchase price was $4.9 million for the land, office
      building, greenhouses and associated equipment. Alico Plant World, LLC was
      set
      up as a wholly owned subsidiary of Alico-Agri, Ltd. The assets of Plant World
      were purchased for the purpose of diversifying Alico s agricultural operations
      and to leverage Alico s existing relationships with the farming
      community. 

Bowen  

Alico,
      through its newly formed subsidiary Bowen Brothers Fruit, LLC (Bowen), purchased
      the assets of Bowen Brothers Fruit Co., Inc. for $1.9 million in February 2006.
      The purchase was made to provide Alico with additional marketing expertise
      and
      the ability to harvest its own fruit crop.  

Saddlebag  

Saddlebag
      has been active in the subdividing, development and sale of real estate since
      its inception in 1971. Saddlebag has two subdivisions near Frostproof, Florida
      that have been developed. Both subdivisions are sold out. The Company recently
      hired a Vice President of Real Estate, who also serves as President of
      Saddlebag, to work with senior management and the Board of Directors to enhance
      the planning and strategic positioning of all Company owned land. He will also
      oversee the entitlement of the Company's land assets in order to preserve rights
      should the Company choose to develop property in the future. 

The
      financial results of the operation of these subsidiaries are consolidated with
      those of the Company. Intercompany activities and balances are eliminated in
      consolidation. (See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements.) 

Segments  

The
      Company engages in a variety of agricultural pursuits as well as other land
      management activities. For further information concerning segments please refer
      to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Agricultural
      Operations  

Bowen
      Brothers  

Bowen s
      operations include harvesting, hauling and marketing citrus for both Alico
      and
      other outside growers. Bowen s operations also include the purchase and resale
      of citrus fruit. Bowen Brothers was purchased in February 2006 to provide Alico
      with additional marketing expertise and the ability to harvest its own fruit
      crop. During fiscal year 2006 Bowen harvested approximately 900 thousand boxes
      of Alico s fruit and 2.7 million boxes of fruit from third
      parties.  

7 

Ci  trus
      Groves  

Alico s
      Citrus Grove operations consist of cultivating citrus trees in order to produce
      citrus for delivery to the fresh and processed citrus markets. Approximately
      10,208 acres of citrus were grown and harvested during the 2005-06 season.
      Since
      1983 the Company has maintained a marketing contract covering the majority
      of
      the Company's citrus crop with Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. (Griffin), a Florida
      corporation. Griffin was the Company s largest shareholder until February 2004
      (See footnote 10 to consolidated financial statements). The agreement provides
      for modifications to meet changing market conditions and provides that either
      party may terminate the contract by furnishing advance written notice prior
      to
      the first day of August before each fruit season. Notice was served in a timely
      fashion in fiscal year 2005, and accordingly the fruit marketed under the terms
      of this contract is expected to decrease over the next two years. Under the
      terms of the contract, the Company's fruit is packed and/or processed and sold
      along with fruit from other growers, including Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. The
      proceeds, less costs and a profit margin, are distributed on a pro rata basis
      as
      the finished product is sold. In February 2004, Ben Hill Griffin, Inc.
      transferred all of its stock holdings in the Company to Atlantic Blue Trust,
      Inc., pursuant to the "Settlement Agreement" agreed upon regarding a dispute
      over a family trust. 

During
      the year ended August 31, 2006, approximately 78% of the Company's fruit crop
      was marketed under this agreement, as compared to 76% for the year ended August
      31, 2005 and 75% for the year ended August 31, 2004.  

Sugarcane  

Alico s
      sugarcane operations consist of cultivating sugarcane for sale to a sugar
      processor. The crop is harvested by a co-op, proportionately owned by sugarcane
      growers, including Alico. The Company had 10,138 acres, 10,580 acres, and 11,131
      acres of sugarcane in production during fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004,
      respectively. The 2006, 2005, and 2004 fiscal year crops yielded approximately
      272,000, 319,000 and 346,000 gross tons, respectively. An additional 3,416
      acres
      of planted cane was not yet mature for harvest during fiscal year 2006. Since
      the inception of its sugarcane program in 1988, the Company has sold
  100%
      of       its
      product through a pooling agreement with   United
      States Sugar Corporation,  
      a local
      Florida sugar mill. Under the terms of the pooling agreement, the Company s
      sugarcane is processed and sold along with sugarcane from other growers. The
      proceeds, less costs and a profit margin, are distributed on a pro rata basis
      as
      the finished product is sold. 

Cattle  

The
      Company s cattle operation, located in Hendry and Collier Counties, Florida, is
      engaged primarily in the production of beef cattle and the raising of
      replacement heifers. The breeding herd consists of approximately 13,500 cows,
      bulls and replacement heifers. Approximately 56% of the herd is from one to
      five
      years old, while the remaining 44% are at least six years old. The Company
      primarily sells to packing and processing plants in the United States. The
      Company also sells cattle through local livestock auction markets and to
      contract cattle buyers in the United States. These buyers provide ready markets
      for the Company's cattle. In the opinion of Management, the loss of any one
      or a
      few of these processing plants and/or buyers would not have a material adverse
      effect on the Company's cattle operation. Subject to prevailing market
      conditions, the Company may hedge its beef inventory by entering into cattle
      futures contracts to reduce exposure to changes in market prices. 

8 

Plant
      World  

In
      September 2004, in order to diversify Alico s agricultural operations and to
      leverage Alico s existing relationships with the farming community, the Company
      formed a subsidiary, Alico Plant World and purchased the assets of a wholesale
      grower and shipper of commercial vegetable transplants to commercial farmers.
      Plant World s infrastructure covers approximately 50 acres of land. During
      fiscal years 2006 and 2005, Plant World shipped approximately 85.8 million
      and
      69.9 million vegetable transplants, respectively, to various farmers in several
      states. The Company is currently exploring various ornamental varieties of
      plants in order to improve margins in its nursery operations. 

Vegetables  

In
      fiscal
      year 2006 the Company began growing vegetables. During the year, the Company
      planted 500 acres of sweet corn and 500 acres of green beans. The corn crop
      produced approximately 119,000 crates, and the beans produced approximately
      77,000 bushels. Yields from both ventures were reduced due to the effects of
      hurricane Wilma, a category three hurricane that swept through Southwest Florida
      in October 2005. The Company plans to double its corn and bean acreage in fiscal
      year 2007, and is currently exploring the cultivation of other vegetable
      crops. 

Sod  

The
      Company is also engaged in the cultivation of sod for landscaping purposes.
      The
      Company had 472 acres of sod in production during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
      2004. The Company harvested approximately 12.6 million, 4.8 million and 17.2
      million square feet of cultivated sod in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. The Company is currently developing an additional 500 acres of
      sod. The Company entered into an agreement in fiscal year 2006 with a United
      States sod wholesaler to market its crop. Additionally, the Company began
      selling uncultivated sod (bahia) to local landscapers from its pastures in
      fiscal year 2005. The Company harvested approximately 15.9 million and 1.8
      million square feet of uncultivated sod during the 2006 and 2005 fiscal years,
      respectively. 

Native
      trees and shrubs  

A
      small
      percentage of the Company's properties are classified as timberlands. Thinning
      of timber began in fiscal year 2006 and will be completed during fiscal 2007.
      Additionally the Company sells sabal palms, palm fans, oak trees and other
      horticultural commodities growing naturally on the property. These products
      are
      sold to landscaping companies in Florida. The Company does not incur any of
      the
      harvesting expenses for any of its tree or shrub sales.  

9 

Non
      Agricultural Operations  

Mining
      Operations: Rock and Sand  

Prior
      to
      July 2005, the Company leased a portion of its property in Lee County, Florida
      to CSR America, Inc. of West Palm Beach, Florida for the mining and production
      of rock, aggregate, sand, baserock and other road building and construction
      materials.  

Royalties
      received for these products are based on a percentage of the F.O.B. plant sales
      price. The Company sold the majority of the property in Lee County where the
      mines were located in July 2005, but continues to receive royalties from the
      mining operations on the remaining acreage. However, a contract is pending
      for
      the sale of the remaining Lee County property. When the property is sold, the
      royalties from this location will cease. 

In
      May
      2006, the Company paid $10.6 million to purchase a 523 acre riverfront mine
      site for rock and fill. The Company has allocated approximately 54% of the
      purchase price to the rock and sand reserves, with the remaining 46% of the
      purchase price allocated as residual land value based on the present value
      of
      the expected rock royalties over 20 years and the expected residual value of
      the
      property after that time. Rock and sand reserves will be depleted and charged
      to
      cost of goods sold proportionately as the property is mined.  

Additionally,
      the Company is currently seeking a permit for a rock mine on its
      Hendry County property. Other properties are currently being evaluated
      for mine sites. 

Land
      Rentals for Grazing, Agricultural, Oil Exploration and Other
      Uses  

The
      Company rents land to others on a tenant-at-will basis, for grazing, farming
      and
      recreational uses. The Company will continue to develop additional land to
      lease
      for farming as strategically advantageous and profitable. There were no
      significant changes in the method of rental for these purposes during the past
      fiscal year. 

Competition  

As
      indicated, the Company is primarily engaged in a variety of agricultural and
      nonagricultural activities, all of which are in highly competitive markets.
      For
      instance, citrus is grown in foreign countries and several states, the most
      notable of which are: Brazil, Florida, California, and Texas. Beef cattle are
      produced throughout the United States and domestic beef sales also compete
      with
      imported beef. Sugarcane products compete with products from sugar beets in
      the
      United States as well as imported sugar and sugar products from foreign
      countries. Sod is produced throughout the United States, as are vegetables
      and
      vegetable transplants. Forest and rock products are produced in most parts
      of
      the United States. Leasing of land is also widespread. 

The
      Company's share of the United States market for citrus, sugarcane, cattle,
      sod,
      vegetables, vegetable transplants, mining and forest products is less than
      3%. 

Environmental
      Regulations  

The
      Company's operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws
      regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Management believes
      the Company is in compliance with all such rules and such compliance has not
      had
      a material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or the Company s
      competitive position. 

While
      compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material economic effect
      on the Company's operations, executive officers are required to spend a
      considerable amount of time monitoring these matters. In addition, there are
      ongoing costs incurred in complying with permitting and reporting
      requirements. 

10 

Employees  

At
      August
      31, 2006, the Company had a total of 215 full-time employees classified as
      follows: Bowen 12; Citrus 79; Sugarcane 17; Ranch 19; Plant World 29; Vegetables
      2; Sod 1; Real Estate 3; Leasing 1; Facilities Maintenance Support 31; General
      and Administrative 21. One of the general and administrative staff is
      engaged in the development of new products and research. Management is not
      aware
      of any efforts by employees or outside organizers to create any type of labor
      union. Management believes that the employer/employee relationship environment
      is such that labor organization activities are unlikely to occur. 

Seasonal
      Nature of Business  

As
      with
      any agribusiness enterprise, the Company's business operations are predominantly
      seasonal in nature. The harvest and sale of citrus fruit generally occurs in
      all
      quarters. Sugarcane is harvested during the first, second and third quarters.
      Vegetable harvest and sales generally occur in the first, second and third
      quarters. Vegetable transplant sales occur primarily in the first, second and
      third quarters. Other segments of the Company's business such as its cattle
      and
      sod sales, and its timber, mining and leasing operations, tend to be more
      recurring than seasonal in nature. 

Capital
      resources and raw materials  

Management
      believes that the Company will be able to meet its working capital requirements
      for the foreseeable future with internally generated funds. Additionally, the
      Company has credit commitments that provide for revolving credit that is
      available for the Company's general use. Raw materials needed to propagate
      the
      various crops grown by the Company are readily available from local sources.

Available
      Information  

The
      Company s internet address is:    http://www.alicoinc.com   .
      The
      Company files reports with the Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC") as
      required by SEC rules and regulations on Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and the annual
      proxy statement. These reports are available to the public to read and copy
      at
      the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington,
      D.C. 

The
      Company is an electronic filer with the SEC and these reports are available
      through the SEC internet site (http:www.sec.gov), and through the Company s
      website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Copies
      of
      documents filed with the SEC are also available free of charge upon
      request. 

11 

Item
      1A. Risk Factors  

The
      Company s operations involve varying degrees of risk and each investor should
      consider the specific risks and speculative features inherent in and affecting
      the business of the Company before investing in the Company. In considering
      the
      following risk and speculative factors, an investor should realize that there
      is
      a possibility of losing their entire investment.  

The
      Company s financial condition and results of operations could be affected by the
      risk factors discussed below. These factors may also cause actual results to
      differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking
      statements in Management s Discussion and Analysis. 

The
      list
      of risks below is not intended to be all inclusive. A complete listing of risks
      is beyond the scope of this document. However, in contemplating the financial
      position and results of operations of the Company, investors should carefully
      consider, among other factors, the following risk factors: 

General   

The
      IRS has proposed significant contested audit tax adjustments which could have
      a
      material adverse effect on the Company  

The
      Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a thirty day letter dated August 14,
      2006
      pertaining to ongoing audits of Alico for the tax years 2000 through 2004.
      The
      letter proposes changes to the Company's tax liabilities for each of these
      tax
      years and required the Company either a) to agree with the changes and remit
      the
      specified taxes and penalties, or b) to submit a rebuttal within 30 days. The
      Company sought and received an extension of time to submit its rebuttal until
      October 16, 2006 and timely submitted the rebuttal on October 13,
      2006. 

In
      the
      thirty day letter, the IRS proposed several alternative theories as a basis
      for
      its argument that Alico should have reported additional taxable income in the
      years under audit. These theories principally relate to the formation and
      capitalization of the Company's Agri Insurance subsidiary and its tax exempt
      status during the years under audit. Under the theories proposed, the IRS has
      calculated additional taxes and penalties due ranging from a minimum of $35.4
      million dollars to a maximum of $86.4 million dollars. The letter does not
      quantify the interest on the proposed taxes. However, using the IRS promulgated
      monthly rates the Company estimates that the interest charge on the maximum
      proposed assessment is $25.0 million as of August 31, 2006. Interest will
      continue to accrue at the monthly interest rate published by the
      IRS. 

The
      Company does not accept the IRS position and intends to continue to oppose
      vigorously any attempt by the IRS to impose such assessment in connection with
      the Agri Insurance matter. The Company has accrued a liability of $20.3 million
      for the contingency.  

Should
      the IRS prevail in its primary position, the effect would materially and
      adversely reduce the liquidity of the Company and would cause the Company to
      default on several of its loan covenants. 

12 

The
      Company has a 50.5% stockholder and a limited public float which could
      adversely affect the price of its stock and restrict the ability of the
      minority shareholders to have a voice in corporate
      governance  

Atlantic
      Blue Group, Inc. (ABG) (formerly Atlantic Blue Trust, Inc.) is the owner of
      approximately 50.5% of the Company s common stock. Accordingly, the Company s
      common stock is thinly traded and its market price may fluctuate significantly
      more than stocks with a larger public float. Additionally by virtue of its
      ownership percentage, ABG is able to elect all the directors and, consequently,
      is deemed to control the Company. While ABG has issued a governance letter
      dated
      September 29, 2006 reaffirming its commitment to maintaining a majority of
      independent directors on Alico s board, this commitment may be terminated at any
      time upon 30 days prior written notice. The Company does not have cumulative
      voting. Accordingly stockholders of the Company other than ABG have no effective
      control over who the management and directors of the Company are or will
      be. 

The
      Company manages its properties in an attempt to capture its highest and best
      use
      and customarily does not sell property until it determines that the property
      is
      surplus to its agricultural activities by reason of its potential for
      industrial, commercial or residential use. The Company has little control over
      when this occurs.  

The
      Company s goal for its land management program is to manage and selectively
      improve its lands for their most profitable use. To this end, the Company
      continually evaluates its properties focusing on soil capabilities, subsurface
      composition, topography, transportation, availability of markets and the
      climatic characteristics of each of the tracts. While the Company is primarily
      engaged in agricultural activities, when land is determined to be better suited
      to industrial, commercial or residential use, the Company has classified the
      property as surplus to its agricultural activities and sold it. The Company s
      land management strategy is thus a long term strategy to acquire, hold and
      manage land for its best use, selling surplus land at opportune times and in
      manner that would maximize the Company s profits from such surplus tracts. The
      timing for when agricultural lands become best suited for industrial, commercial
      or residential use depends upon a number of factors which are beyond the control
      of the Company such as: 

population
                migration 

national,
                regional and local economic
                conditions 

conditions
                in local real estate markets (e.g., supply of land, reduction in
                demand) 

competition
                from other available property; 

availability
                of roads and utilities; 

availability
                of governmental entitlements; 

government
                regulation and changes in real estate, zoning, land use, environmental
                or
                tax laws; 

interest
                rates and the availability of financing;
                and 

potential
                liability under environmental and other
                laws. 

The
      Company is not able to predict when properties will become best suited for
      non
      agricultural use and has little ability to influence this process. Additionally
      changes from time to time in any or a combination of these factors could result
      in delays in sales or the Company s inability to sell tracts which are
      determined to be surplus or to its ability to realize optimum pricing from
      such
      sales. 

13 

The
      Company carries large receivables from seller financed sales of large tracts
      of
      surplus land the collectibility of which is subject to credit risk relating
      to
      debtors.  

The
      Company s sale of surplus lands often involves buyer financing provided by the
      Company. In addition to the cash deposit paid by a buyer of surplus land, the
      Company at times takes a mortgage for the unpaid balance of the purchase price
      of the land sales contract. The collectibility of the amounts owed and the
      likelihood that the Company will achieve the profitability promised by any
      sales
      contract is dependent on the creditworthiness of the mortgagees which often
      depends upon the continued financial success of such entity. The purchasers
      of
      the surplus tracts are often developers, whose success is in turn directly
      affected by the multiple factors in the national and local real estate market,
      including but not limited to interest rates, demand for housing, competition
      from other available land and unanticipated costs of construction. A mortgagor s
      default under a material sales contract, or the bankruptcy of any material
      purchaser of surplus land depending on the magnitude of its debt to the Company,
      could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

The
      Company is subject to environmental liability by virtue of owning significant
      holdings of real estate assets.  

The
      Company faces a potential for environmental liability by virtue of its ownership
      of real property. If hazardous substances (including herbicides and pesticides
      used by the Company or by any persons leasing the Company s lands) are
      discovered on or emanating from any of the Company s lands and the release of
      such substances presents a threat of harm to the public health or the
      environment, the Company may be held strictly liable for the cost of remediation
      of these hazardous substances. In addition, environmental laws that apply to
      a
      given site can vary greatly according to the site s location, its present and
      former uses, and other factors such as the presence of wetlands or endangered
      species on the site. Although the Company purchases insurance when it is
      available for environmental liability, these insurance contracts may not be
      adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available
      to
      the Company at prices and terms that would be satisfactory. It is possible
      that
      in some cases the cost of compliance with these environmental laws could exceed
      the value of a particular tract of land or be significant enough that it would
      have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

The
      Company has two large customers that account for 34% of
      revenues.  

For
      the
      fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, the Company s two largest customers accounted
      for approximately 34% of operating revenues, with its largest customer
      accounting for 22% of operating revenue. The Company s largest customer is Ben
      Hill Griffin, Inc. ( Griffin ), with whom the Company has a marketing agreement
      which, by its terms, will expire at the end of the 2006-07 citrus season. The
      balance of the sales concentration is attributable to the Company s marketing
      and allotment contracts with U.S. Sugar, for whom the Company grows raw
      sugarcane. These two marketing arrangements involve marketing pools which allow
      the contracting party to market the Company s product in conjunction with others
      in the pool and pay the Company a proportionate share of the resulting revenue
      from the sale of all of the pooled product, less operating expenses and an
      agreed upon profit margin. While the Company believes that it can replace these
      arrangements with other marketing alternatives, it may not be able to do so
      quickly and the results or associated costs may not be as favorable as the
      current contracts.  

The
        Company has Material Weaknesses in its internal accounting
        controls.  

In
        the
        2005 Annual Report on Form 10K, the Company noted that it had identified
        a
        Material Weakness in its internal accounting controls because of insufficient
        staffing in its accounting department. The Company took remedial action to
        correct this weakness, but , as of the date of the 2006 audit, the Company s
        Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer decided that the Material
        Weakness had not been remediated and therefore has continued. The reason
        for
        this decision is that during the Company s annual audit a significant deficiency
        arose due to adjustments to the Company s tax provision that were not detected
        by the Company s accounting staff. . See Item 9A. By definition a Material
        Weakness means that there is a significant deficiency that, by itself, or
        in
        combination with other significant deficiencies, results in more than a remote
        likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
        statements will not be prevented or detected. Additionally, the existence
        of a
        Material Weakness precludes management or the Company s Auditor from concluding
        that internal control over financial reporting is effective and
        requires the Company's auditors to issue an adverse attestation
        opinion on the company s internal controls.  

Agricultural
      Risks - General  

Agricultural
      operations generate a large portion of the Company s revenues. Agriculture
      operations are subject to a wide variety of risks including product pricing
      due
      to variations in supply and demand, weather, disease, input costs and product
      liability.  

Agricultural
      products are subject to supply and demand pricing which is not
      predictable  

Because
      the Company s agricultural products are commodities, the Company is not able to
      predict with certainty what price it will receive for its products; however,
      its
      costs are relatively fixed. Additionally, the growth cycle of such products
      in
      many instances dictates when such products must be marketed which may or may
      not
      be advantageous to obtaining the best price. Excessive supplies tend to cause
      severe price competition and lower prices throughout the industry affected.
      Conversely, shortages may cause higher prices.  Shortages
      often result from adverse growing conditions which can reduce available product
      of growers in affected growing areas while not affecting others in non affected
      growing areas. Since multiple variables which affect  

14 

pricing
      and costs are incurred before pricing and supply is known, the Company cannot
      accurately predict or control from year to year what its profits or losses
      from
      agricultural operations will be. 

The
      Company s agricultural assets are concentrated and the effects of adverse
      weather conditions such as hurricanes can be exaggerated     .   

The
      Company s agricultural operations are concentrated in south Florida counties
      with more than 80% of its agricultural lands located at Alico Ranch in Hendry
      County. All of these areas are subject to occasional periods of drought, excess
      rain, flooding, freeze, and hurricane risk. Crops require water in different
      quantities at different times during the growth cycle. Accordingly too much
      or
      too little water at any given point can adversely impact production. While
      the
      Company attempts to mitigate controllable weather risks through water management
      and crop selection, its ability to do so is limited. The Company s operations
      are in south and central Florida which are areas subject to the risk of
      hurricanes. Hurricanes have the potential to destroy crops and impact citrus
      production through the loss of fruit and destruction of trees either as a result
      of high winds or through the spread of wind blown disease. The Company was
      impacted by hurricanes during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004
      and sustained losses relating to the storms during all three fiscal years.
      The Company seeks to minimize hurricane risk by the purchase of insurance
      contracts, but a portion of the Company s crops remain uninsured. Because the
      Company s agricultural properties are located in relative close proximity to
      each other, the impact of adverse weather conditions is magnified in the
      Company s results of operations. 

Water
      use regulation restricts the Company s access to water for agricultural
      use  

The
        Company s agricultural operations are dependent upon the availability of
        adequate surface and underground water needed to produce its crops. The
        availability of water for use in irrigation is regulated by the State of
        Florida
        through water management districts which have jurisdiction over various
        geographic regions in which the Company s lands are located. Currently the
        Company has permits for the use of underground and surface water which are
        adequate for its agricultural needs. Surface water in Hendry County, where
        much
        of the Company s agricultural land is located, comes from Lake Okeechobee via
        the Caloosahatchee River and the system of canals used to irrigate such land.
        Since the Army Corps of Engineers controls the level of Lake Okeechobee,
        this
        organization ultimately determines the availability of surface water even
        though
        the use of water has been permitted by the State of Florida through the water
        management district.        Recently
        the Army Corps of Engineers decided to lower the permissible level of Lake
        Okeechobee in response to concerns about the ability of the levees surrounding
        the lake to restrain rising waters which could result from hurricanes. Changes
        in permitting for underground or surface water use during times of drought
        because of lower lake levels may result in shortages of water for agricultural
        use by the Company and could have a material adverse effect upon the Company s
        agricultural operations and financial results.      

The
          Company s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from disease including
          but not limited to citrus canker and citrus greening
          diseases  

The
          Company s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from diseases such as
          Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening. Each of these diseases is widespread
          in
          Florida and the Company has found instances of Citrus Canker and/or Citrus
          Greening in several of its groves. Both diseases are present in areas where
          Company groves are located. There is no known cure for Citrus Canker at
          the
          present time although some pesticides inhibit the development of the disease.
          The disease is spread by contact with infected fruit or trees or by wind
          blown
          transmission. The Company s policy is to destroy trees which become infected
          with this disease or with Citrus Greening disease and the Company maintains
          an
          inspection program to discover infestations early. Citrus Greening destroys
          infected trees. The disease is spread by psyllids and the Company carries
          on a
          pesticide program to eliminate these hosts. There is no known pesticide
          or other
          treatment for Citrus Greening at the present time. Both of these diseases
          pose a
          significant threat to the Florida Citrus industry and to the Company s citrus
          groves. Wide spread dissemination of these diseases in the Company s groves
          could cause a material adverse effect to the Company s operating results and
          citrus grove assets. 

15 

Pesticide
      and herbicide use by the Company or its lessees could create liability for
      the
      Company  

The
      Company and some of the parties to whom the Company leases land for agricultural
      purposes, use herbicides, pesticides and other hazardous substances in the
      operation of their business. All pesticides and herbicides used by the Company
      have been approved for use by the proper governmental agencies with the hazards
      attributable to each substance appropriately labeled and described. The Company
      applies such chemicals strictly in accordance with the labeling. However, the
      Company does not have any knowledge or control over the chemicals used by third
      parties who lease the Company s lands for cultivation. It is possible that some
      of these herbicides and pesticides could be harmful to humans if used
      improperly, or that there may be unknown hazards associated with such chemicals
      despite any contrary government or manufacturer labels. The Company might have
      to pay the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental
      release or the use or misuse of such substances.  

Changes
      in immigration laws or enforcement of such laws could impact the ability of
      the
      Company to harvest its crops  

The
      Company engages third parties to provide personnel for its harvesting
      operations. The personnel engaged by such companies typically come from pools
      composed of immigrant labor. The availability and number of such workers is
      subject to decrease if there are changes in the U.S. immigration laws or
      stricter enforcement of such laws. The scarcity of available personnel to
      harvest the Company s agricultural products could cause the Company s harvesting
      costs to increase or could lead to the loss of product that is not timely
      harvested which could have a material adverse effect upon the
      Company. 

Changing
      public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks of our
      agricultural products can affect demand and pricing of such
      products.  

The
      general public s perception regarding the quality, safety or health risks
      associated with particular food crops the Company grows and sells could reduce
      demand and prices for some of the Company s products. To the extent that
      consumer preferences evolve away from products the Company produces for health
      or other reasons, and the Company is unable to modify its products or to develop
      products that satisfy new customer preferences, there could be decreased
      demand for the Company's products. Even if market prices are
      unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be or have been harvested must
      be
      brought to market. Additionally, the Company has significant investments in
      its
      citrus groves and cannot easily shift to alternative products for this land.
      A
      decrease in the selling price received for the Company s products due to the
      factors described above could have a material adverse effect on the
      Company. 

The
        Company faces significant competition in its agricultural
        operations.  

The
        Company faces significant competition in its agricultural operations both
        from
        domestic and foreign producers and does not have any branded products. Foreign
        growers generally have lower cost of production, less environmental regulation
        and in some instances greater resources and market flexibility than the
        Company.         Because
        foreign growers have great flexibility as to when they enter the U. S. market,
        the Company cannot always predict the impact these competitors will have
        on its
        business and results of operations. The competition the Company faces from
        foreign suppliers of sugar and orange juice is mitigated by quota restriction
        on
        sugar imports imposed by the U. S. government and by a governmentally imposed
        tariff on U. S. orange imports.  A change in the government s sugar policy
        allowing more imports or a reduction in the U.S. orange juice tariff would
        adversely impact the Company and negatively impact the Company s results of
        operations. 

Item
          1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

16 

Item
      2. Properties.  

At
      August
      31, 2006, the Company owned a total of 136,605 acres of land located in five
      counties in Florida. Acreage in each county and the primary classification
      with
      respect to the present use of these properties is shown in the following
      table:  

17 

Of
      the
      above lands, the Company utilizes approximately 22,000 acres of improved pasture
      plus approximately 49,000 acres of semi-improved and native pasture for cattle
      production. Much of the land is also leased for multi-purpose use such as oil
      exploration, farming and recreation. 

From
      the
      inception of the Company's initial development program in 1948, the goal has
      been to develop the lands for their most profitable use. Prior to implementation
      of the development program, detailed studies were made of the properties
      focusing on soil capabilities, topography, transportation, availability of
      markets and the climatic characteristics of each of the tracts. Based on these
      and later studies, the use of each tract was determined. Management believes
      that the lands are suitable for agricultural, residential and commercial uses.
      The Company is primarily engaged in agricultural activities. In the past some
      of
      the land was considered surplus to the agricultural needs of the Company and,
      as
      indicated under Item 1 of this report, sales of such surplus property were
      made
      from time to time. 

The
      Company has recently hired a Vice President of Real Estate, who also serves
      as
      President of Saddlebag Lake Resorts, Inc., to work with senior management and
      the Board of Directors to enhance the planning and strategic positioning of
      all
      Company owned land. He will also oversee the entitlement of the Company s land
      assets in order to preserve rights should the Company choose to develop the
      property in the future. 

Management
      believes that each of the major agricultural programs is adequately supported
      by
      equipment, buildings, fences, irrigation systems and other amenities required
      for the operation of the projects. 

Item
      3. Legal proceedings  

The
      Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a thirty day letter dated August 14,
      2006
      pertaining to ongoing audits of Alico for the tax years 2000 through 2004.
      The
      letter proposes changes to the Company's tax liabilities for each of these
      tax
      years and required the Company either a) to agree with the changes and remit
      the
      specified taxes and penalties, or b) to submit a rebuttal within 30 days. The
      Company sought and received an extension of time to submit a rebuttal until
      October 16, 2006 and timely submitted the rebuttal on October 13, 2006. The
      rebuttal letter will be reviewed by the Southwest Florida IRS office, then
      forwarded to IRS Appeals for further action. 

In
      the
      thirty day letter, the IRS proposed several alternative theories as a basis
      for
      its argument that Alico should have reported additional taxable income in the
      years under audit. These theories principally relate to the formation and
      capitalization of the Company's Agri Insurance subsidiary and its tax exempt
      status during the years under audit. Under the theories proposed, the IRS has
      calculated additional taxes and penalties due ranging from a minimum of $35.4
      million dollars to a maximum of $86.4 million dollars. The letter does not
      quantify the interest on the proposed taxes.  

The
      Company does not accept the IRS position and intends to continue to oppose
      vigorously any attempt by the IRS to impose such assessment in connection with
      the Agri Insurance matter.  

Item
      4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.  

None.  

18 

PART
      II   

Item
      5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters.

Common
      Stock Prices  

The
      common stock of Alico, Inc. is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC ( NASDAQ )
      under the symbol ALCO. The high and low prices as reported by NASDAQ, by fiscal
      quarter, during the years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005 are presented
      below:  

The
      price
      presented does not reflect prices in actual transactions. They are bid prices,
      which represent prices between broker-dealers. Theses prices do not include
      retail mark-ups and mark-downs or any commission to the
      broker-dealer. 

Approximate
      Number of Holders of Common Stock   

As
      of
      October 31, 2006, there were approximately 449 holders of record of the
      Company s Common Stock as reported by the Company s transfer agent. 

At
      a
      Board of Directors meeting held on September 28, 2006, the Board declared a
      quarterly dividend of $0.275 per share payable to stockholders of record as
      of
      December 29, 2006, with payment expected on or about January 15,
      2007. 

The
      Company s ability to pay dividends in the immediate future is dependent on a
      variety of factors including earnings and the financial condition of the
      Company. See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations. 

19 

Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities  

The
      following table presents information with respect to purchases of common stock
      of the Company made during the three months ended August 31, 2006 by the Company
      or any  affiliated purchaser  of the Company as defined in rule 10B-18(a)(3)
      under the Exchange Act. 

(1)
      On
      November 17, 2005 the Company publicly announced that its Board of Directors
      had
      authorized a plan to purchase up to 31,000 shares of the Company's common stock
      through August 31, 2007 for the purpose of funding its Director Stock
      Compensation Plan. This column discloses the number of shares purchased pursuant
      to the Director Stock Compensation Plan during the indicated time
      periods. 

Equity
      Compensation Arrangements   

On
      November 3, 1998, the Company adopted the Alico, Inc., Incentive Equity Plan
      (The Plan) pursuant to which the Board of Directors of the Company may grant
      options, stock appreciation rights, and/or restricted stock to certain directors
      and employees. The Plan authorized grants of shares or options to purchase
      up to
      650,000 shares of authorized but unissued common stock.  

On
      April
      17, 2006 the Company hired a President and Chief Operating Officer. As a portion
      of the total compensation package, the Board awarded 20,000 shares of restricted
      stock. Under the terms of the agreement, the shares will vest 25% on April
      17,
      2010 and continue to vest 25% per year until they are fully vested. The fair
      value per share was $45.25 on the date of the award. 

On
      July
      17, 2006 the Company hired a Vice President of Real Estate. As a portion of
      the
      total compensation package, the Board awarded 13,000 shares of restricted stock.
      Under the terms of the agreement, the shares will vest 25% on July 17, 2010
      and
      continue to vest 25% per year until they are fully vested. The fair value per
      share was $53.13 on the date of the award. 

On
      October 27, 2006, the Board awarded 20,000 shares of restricted stock to the
      Chief Executive Officer as additional compensation. Under the terms of the
      agreement, 4,000 shares vested effective August 31, 2006 and the remaining
      shares will vest 25% per year annually thereafter until they are fully vested.
      The fair value per share was $61.96 on the date of the award. 

The
      following schedules detail the various transactions outlined above: 

20 

Equity
                    Compensation Plan Information  

Number
                    of securities  

remaining
                    available  

for
                    future issuance  

Number
                    of securities 

under
                    equity  

to
                    be issued upon  

Weighted
                    average  

compensation
                    plans  

exercise
                    of  

exercise
                    price of  

(excluding
                    securities  

outstanding
                    options,  

outstanding
                    options,  

reflected
                    in  

Plan
                    category 

warrants
                    and rights 

warrants
                    and rights 

column
                    (a) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Equity
                    compensation 

plans
                    approved by 

security
                    holders 

9,158

$ 

17.66 

292,844

Equity
                    compensation 

plans
                    not approved 

by
                    security holders 

53,000

-

-

Total 

62,158

$ 

17.66 

292,844

21 

Item
      7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
      of
      Operations.  

Cautionary
      Statement  

Some
      of
      the statements in this document include statements about future expectations.
      Statements that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" for
      the purpose of the safe harbor provided by Section 21E of the Exchange Act
      and
      Section 27A of the Securities Act. These forward-looking statements, which
      include references to one or more potential transactions, and strategic
      alternatives under consideration, are predictive in nature or depend upon or
      refer to future events or conditions, are subject to known, as well as, unknown
      risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially
      from
      our expectations. There can be no assurance that any future transactions will
      occur or be structured in the manner suggested or that any such transaction
      will
      be completed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any
      forward-looking statements, whether as a result of future events, new
      information or otherwise. 

When
      used
      in this document, or in the documents incorporated by reference herein, the
      words anticipate, should, believe, estimate, may, intend, expect, and other
      words of similar meaning, are likely to address the Company's growth strategy,
      financial results and/or product development programs. Actual results,
      performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated,
      expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein. The
      considerations listed herein represent certain important factors the Company
      believes could cause such results to differ. These considerations are not
      intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that
      may
      affect the Company. It should be recognized that other risks, including general
      economic factors and expansion strategies, may be significant, presently or
      in
      the future, and the risks set forth herein may affect the Company to a greater
      extent than indicated. 

The
      following discussion focuses on the results of operations and the financial
      condition of the Company. This section should be read in conjunction with the
      consolidated financial statements and notes. 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources  

Working
      capital decreased to $92.8 million at August 31, 2006, from $111.2 million
      at
      August 31, 2005. As of August 31, 2006, the Company had cash and cash
      equivalents of $25.1 million compared to $13.4 million at August 31, 2005.
      Marketable securities decreased to $50.1 million from $70.8 million during
      the
      same period. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities decreased to
      6.14 to 1 at August 31, 2006 from 7.24 to 1 at August 31, 2005. Total assets
      increased by $15.1 million to $262.8 million at August 31, 2006, compared to
      $247.7 million at August 31, 2005. 

Management
      believes that the Company will be able to meet its working capital requirements
      for the foreseeable future with internally generated funds. In addition, the
      Company entered into a credit facility in fiscal year 2006 which increased
      its
      credit commitments to provide for revolving credit of up to $175.0 million
      compared with credit commitments of $44.0 million in fiscal year 2005. Of the
      $175.0 million credit commitment, $122.7 million was available for the Company's
      general use at August 31, 2006 (see Note 6 to condensed consolidated financial
      statements). 

22 

The
      Company s operations and financial condition have been impacted in various ways
      by a series of four hurricanes that made landfall in Florida over the past
      two
      fiscal years. High winds and large amounts of rainfall damaged crops and
      infrastructure. Furthermore, the winds helped spread citrus canker. Citrus
      canker is a highly contagious bacterial disease of citrus that causes premature
      leaf and fruit drop. Citrus canker causes no threat to humans, animals or plant
      life other than citrus. Prior to January 10, 2006, Florida law required infected
      and exposed trees within 1,900 feet of the canker find to be removed and
      destroyed. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the USDA determined
      that due to the likely spread of canker by hurricanes they did not believe
      that
      canker eradication was feasible. Due to this determination, the rule requiring
      the destruction of citrus groves testing positive for canker was suspended.
      During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the USDA reimbursed Alico for trees
      that were removed in accordance with Florida law. The reimbursement included
      payment for trees destroyed in fiscal year 2006 as well as fiscal year 2005.
      The
      reimbursements totaled $2.9 million. No accrual for the reimbursement was made
      in fiscal 2005. The Company additionally received $4.6 million of insurance
      proceeds for wind damages incurred to crops and infrastructure during
      fiscal year 2006 and $3.3 million of insurance proceeds for hurricane damages
      sustained during fiscal year 2005. 

Management
      expects continued profitability from the Company s agricultural operations.
      Citrus operations are expected to remain profitable in fiscal year 2007. A
      smaller crop resulting from hurricanes, citrus canker and land development
      has
      caused the unit price of citrus products to increase and thus profits from
      the
      citrus division are expected to exceed those of the prior year.  

The
      Company has implemented cost cutting measures in addition to improved crop
      rotation measures in its sugarcane division; however, a large sugar beet crop
      is
      expected to result in lower prices for finished sugar in fiscal year 2007.
      The
      Company s cattle operations in fiscal year 2007 are expected to remain
      profitable but at lower levels than in fiscal year 2006. Rains generated by
      Hurricane Wilma kept many of the pastures overly wet and the conception rate
      of
      the cattle has been affected. This will result in fewer calves for the Company
      to sell in fiscal year 2007 compared to fiscal year 2006.  

The
      operations of Plant World also suffered from the hurricane and costs per unit
      in
      excess of contracted sales prices. Beginning in fiscal year 2007, Plant World
      is
      expanding into several ornamental varieties with higher profit margins per
      unit.
      As a result, Plant World s results are expected to improve in fiscal year 2007
      and beyond as it begins to fully scale up production of the new varieties.
      Sod profits are also expected to increase slightly in fiscal year 2007. The
      Company plans to double its vegetable acreage in fiscal year 2007. Despite
      expected lower prices in fiscal year 2007 compared to fiscal year 2006, profits
      from vegetable operations are nevertheless expected to exceed prior year
      levels. 

23 

Cash
      outlays for land, equipment, buildings, and other improvements totaled $33.2
      million during the year ended August 31, 2006, compared to $12.9 million during
      fiscal year 2005, and $7.3 million in fiscal year 2004. In May 2006, Alico
      purchased 523 acres of riverfront mining property in Glades County, Florida
      for
      $10.6 million. In February 2006, Alico, through its newly formed subsidiary
      Bowen Brothers Fruit, LLC, purchased the assets of Bowen Brothers Fruit Co.,
      Inc. for $1.9 million. In October 2005, the Company through Alico-Agri,
      purchased 291 acres of lake-front property in Polk County, Florida, for $9.2
      million. Due to damages incurred in the hurricane in fiscal year 2006, the
      Company had to replace 9 large barns, cattle feed structures, several employee
      houses and numerous greenhouses. Additionally, the Company incurred the normal
      costs of capital maintenance of its sugarcane plantings, raising replacement
      heifers for the cattle herd and replacing equipment. In September 2004, the
      Company, through Alico-Agri Ltd., purchased the assets of La Belle Plant World,
      Inc. The purchase price was $4.9 million for the land, office building,
      greenhouses and associated equipment.  

In
      accordance with guidelines established by the Company s Board of Directors, the
      Company restructured its investment portfolio during the first quarter of fiscal
      2006, focusing on high quality fixed income securities with original maturities
      of less than 12 months. As a result of staggered maturity dates, a greater
      portion of the Company s portfolio is classified as cash equivalents than under
      previous investment policies. 

The
      sale
      of a Lee County parcel closed in escrow during July 2005. The sales price was
      $62.9 million consisting of $6.2 million in cash at closing with the balance
      held as a 2.5% mortgage note receivable of $56.7 million payable in four equal
      principal installments together with accrued interest annually for the next
      four
      years after a final development order for the property is issued. The first
      principal and interest installment under the contract will not be due until
      12
      months after the development order is issued by Lee County. The development
      order has not yet been issued; however, in any event the first installment
      is
      due and payable in July 2008, if not paid before that date. 

Another
      sale in Lee County is scheduled to close in fiscal year 2007. This contract
      is
      for a gross sales price of $75.5 million, consisting of $7.6 million in cash
      at
      closing with the balance payable as a 2.5% mortgage note receivable of $67.9
      million. The agreement is subject to various contingencies and there is no
      assurance that it will close or that it will close within the time period
      stated. The agreement is currently being renegotiated. 

In
      November 2005, the Company sold approximately 280 acres of citrus grove land
      located south of LaBelle, Florida in Hendry County for $5.6 million cash placed
      in escrow. The Company will retain operating rights to the grove until
      residential development begins. The Company used the proceeds from the sale
      as
      part of a section 1031 like kind exchange for the mining property acquired
      in
      May 2006. 

The
      Company paid regular quarterly dividends of $0.25 per share on October 15,
      2005,
      January 15, 2006, April 15, 2006 and July 15, 2006. At its June 2006 Board
      meeting, the Board declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.275 per share
      payable to shareholders of record as of September 30, 2006. The dividend was
      paid on October 15, 2006. At its September 2006 Board meeting, the Board
      declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.275 per share payable to
      shareholders of record as of December 29, 2006 with payment expected on or
      about
      January 15, 2007. 

24 

The
      Internal Revenue Service is examining the Company s tax returns for the years
      ended August 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000, and Agri tax returns for
      calendar years 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000. The examinations began in October
      2003. Any assessments resulting from the examinations will be currently due
      and
      payable.  

The
      Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a thirty day letter dated August 14,
      2006
      pertaining to ongoing audits of Alico for the tax years 2000 through 2004.
      The
      letter proposes changes to the Company's tax liabilities for each of these
      tax
      years and required the Company either a) to agree with the changes and remit
      the
      specified taxes and penalties or b) to submit a rebuttal within 30 days. The
      Company sought and received an extension of time to submit its rebuttal until
      October 16, 2006 and timely submitted the rebuttal on October 13,
      2006. 

In
      the
      thirty day letter, the IRS proposed several alternative theories as a basis
      for
      its argument that Alico should have reported additional taxable income in the
      years under audit. These theories principally relate to the formation and
      capitalization of the Company's Agri Insurance subsidiary and its tax exempt
      status during the years under audit. Under the theories proposed, the IRS has
      calculated additional taxes and penalties due ranging from a minimum of $35.4
      million dollars to a maximum of $86.4 million dollars. The letter does not
      quantify the interest on the proposed taxes; however based on Company estimates,
      as of August 31, 2006 the interest on the additional taxes and penalties ranges
      from $7.5 million to $25.0 million on the proposed adjustments..  

The
      Company does not accept the IRS position and intends to continue to oppose
      vigorously any attempt by the IRS to impose such assessment in connection with
      the Agri Insurance matter. See also footnote 7 to the condensed consolidated
      financial statements. Should the IRS prevail in its primary position, the effect
      would be to significantly reduce the liquidity of the Company, and could cause
      the Company to default on several of its loan covenants.  

Overall,
      income from operations improved in fiscal year 2006 compared with fiscal year
      2005, contributing to the overall net income increase over the prior year.
      Operations by segment are discussed separately below.  

25 

General
      and Administrative  

General
      and administrative expenses increased by 17.3% to $11.8 million in fiscal year
      2006 compared with $10.0 million in fiscal year 2005. Due to changing market
      conditions, the Company reassessed the discount rate used to value its defined
      benefit deferred compensation plan and adjusted the rate from 6.25% used to
      compute the accumulated benefit obligation in fiscal year 2005 to 5.25% in
      fiscal year 2006. This change resulted in additional pension expense during
      the
      year of $0.5 million. Additionally, normal retirement benefits began during
      fiscal year 2006 which caused the pension expense to increase an additional
      $0.2
      million when compared with fiscal year 2005. The increased pension expense
      was
      the single largest component of the fiscal year 2006 increase in general and
      administrative expenses. The acquisitions of Bowen and Plant World further
      contributed $0.7 million to the rise in general and administrative expenses.
      Additionally the Company recorded increased consulting fees during fiscal year
      2006 in connection with the ongoing IRS audits compared with the prior fiscal
      year. 

General
      and administrative costs were higher in fiscal year 2005 than in fiscal year
      2004 due to increased expenses related to the evaluation of a merger
      possibility, costs incurred for compliance with Sarbanes Oxley Section 404,
      increased consulting expenses, increased Director fees and continuing costs
      related to the IRS audits. 

Profit
      from the Sale of Real Estate  

In
      the
      first quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company sold approximately a 280
      acres citrus grove located south of Labelle, Florida in Hendry County
      for $5.6 million cash, a net gain of $4.4 million. The Company has
      retained operating rights to the grove until residential development begins.

The
      sale
      of a Lee County parcel closed in escrow during the fourth quarter of fiscal
      year
      2005. The sales price was $62.9 million consisting of $6.2 million in cash
      at
      closing with the balance held as a 2.5% mortgage note receivable of $56.7
      million. At the time of the sale, a gain of $5.3 million was recognized. The
      remainder of the gain will be recognized when principal collections from the
      sale exceed 20% of the purchase price of the property. 

During
      the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, the Company sold approximately 244
      acres
      in Lee County Florida for a sales price of $30.9 million, generating a gain
      of
      $19.7 million. 

Provision
      for Income taxes  

The
      effective tax rate in fiscal year 2006 was 49.0% compared with 34.1% in fiscal
      year 2005 and 35.9% in fiscal year 2004. The fiscal year 2006 increase was
      due
      to an adjustment of the tax contingency previously accrued (see Note 7 to the
      consolidated financial statements). The Company recognized an additional accrual
      of $3.3 million in fiscal year 2006 related to the contingency. The tax affected
      accrual was recognized in the fiscal year 2006 income tax
      provision. 

26 

Interest
      and Investment Income  

Interest
      and investment income is generated principally from investments in corporate
      and
      municipal bonds, mutual funds, U.S. Treasury securities, and mortgages held
      on
      real estate sold on the installment basis.  

In
      accordance with guidelines established by the Company s Board of Directors, the
      Company restructured its investment portfolio during the first quarter of fiscal
      year 2006, focusing on high quality fixed income securities with original
      maturities of less than 12 months. These sales resulted in a net realized gain
      of $3.3 million in fiscal year 2006. Additionally, the Company recognized
      interest income in connection with an installment sale of approximately $2.5
      million in fiscal year 2006. This interest, in conjunction with the realized
      gains mentioned above, was the primary reason that interest and investment
      income increased by $4.7 million when compared to the prior year ($9.1 million
      in fiscal 2006 compared with $4.4 million in fiscal 2005). 

Interest
      and investment income increased in fiscal year 2005 when compared with fiscal
      year 2004 ($4.4 million vs. $2.5 million in fiscal year 2005 and 2004,
      respectively). The increase was caused by an increase in investment level in
      fiscal year 2005 when compared with fiscal year 2004 ($70.8 million at August
      31, 2005 vs. $55.6 million at August 31, 2004), coupled with improved conditions
      in the financial markets. The investment levels increased due to the
      reinvestment of realized investment earnings, together with additional invested
      capital provided by proceeds from the sale of bulk excess real estate in
      December of 2003. 

Interest
      Expense  

Interest
      expense increased during fiscal year 2006 when compared to fiscal year 2005
      due
      to higher interest rates and debt levels. The majority of the Company s
      borrowings are based on the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). The LIBOR
      increased by approximately 1.64% during the year to 5.33%. 

Interest
      expense increased during fiscal year 2005 when compared to fiscal year 2004
      due
      to higher interest rates. The majority of the Company s borrowings are based on
      the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). The LIBOR increased by approximately
      1% during the year to 3.69%. 

Operating
      revenues increased by 39% to $77.4 million in fiscal year 2006 compared with
      $55.5 million in fiscal year 2005. The increase was primarily due to the
      Company s purchase of Bowen during the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Bowen s
      operations generated revenues of $30.9 million from the date of acquisition
      to
      August 31, 2006.  

27 

Operating
      revenues increased 7% during fiscal year 2005 when compared with fiscal year
      2004. The increase was primarily due to increased revenues from agricultural
      operations and land leasing and rentals. 

Gross
      profit increased to $14.7 million for fiscal year 2006 compared with $12.3
      million for fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2006 the Company received   reimbursements
      from the USDA in connection with citrus canker eradication efforts totaling
      $2.9
      million. Excluding the canker reimbursement, gross profit from agricultural
      operations was $9.2 million in fiscal year 2006, down slightly from the prior
      year results of $9.5 million. Due to the cyclical nature of agriculture, the
      Company is working to diversify its agricultural ventures, with the goal of
      producing an even earnings stream. Fiscal year 2006 is a good example of the
      effectiveness of this diversification strategy. During the 2006 fiscal year,
      the
      Company initiated a vegetable farming operation. In its first year, the
      vegetable operation generated a gross profit of $1.0 million. Citrus grove
      operations also posted an increased gross profit during fiscal year 2006
      compared with fiscal year 2005 as did the Company s sod operations, while gross
      profits from the sugarcane, cattle, greenhouse and native plant operations
      declined. The increased gross profit was the reason that income from operations
      in fiscal year 2006 exceeded income from operations in fiscal year
      2005. 

Gross
      profits decreased to $12.3 million for fiscal year 2005 compared with $12.8
      million for fiscal 2004 due to reduced mining revenues and casualty losses
      caused by hurricanes and citrus canker  .
      Gross
      profit from agricultural operations was $9.5 million in fiscal year 2005,
      improved from the prior year results of $8.8 million. Citrus grove operations
      posted an increased gross profit during fiscal year 2005 compared with fiscal
      year 2004 due to higher prices for citrus products. Additionally, the Company s
      cattle and greenhouse operations performed better in fiscal year 2005 than
      fiscal year 2004, while the gross profits from the Company s sugarcane, sod and
      native plant operations were below fiscal year 2004 levels. Despite the
      increased gross profit in fiscal year 2004, net income from operations was
      lower
      in fiscal year 2005 than in fiscal year 2004 due to increased general and
      administrative costs as previously discussed. 

28 

Agricultural
      Operations  

Agricultural
      operations generate a large portion of the Company s revenues. Agricultural
      operations are subject to a wide variety of risks including weather and disease.
      Additionally, it is not unusual for agricultural commodities to experience
      wide
      variations in prices from year to year or from season to season.  

Bowen  

Bowen s
      operations generated revenues of $30.9 million and expenses of $31.1 million
      for
      the period from the date of acquisition to August 31, 2006. A portion of the
      purchase price was allocated to intangible assets and generated an amortization
      cost of $0.7 million for the period from the date of acquisition to August
      31,
      2006. By utilizing Bowen to harvest the Company s fruit during fiscal year 2006,
      the Company was also able to reduce citrus harvesting costs from traditional
      market rates. The normal profit margin on intercompany harvesting was eliminated
      from Bowen s results, and the cost savings was reflected in the Company s Citrus
      Grove segment. 

Citrus
      Groves  

The
      Citrus Groves division recorded gross profits of $7.6 million, $6.2 million
      and
      $4.1 million, and gross revenues of $22.2 million, $26.2 million and $24.5
      million for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
      Hurricanes, citrus canker finds and increased real estate development in the
      central and southern portions of Florida, where the majority of citrus is
      produced, have combined to reduce the supply of citrus for the past two years,
      resulting in per unit price increases for citrus products across the industry.
      Revenue per box was $7.22, $6.56 and $5.36 in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

The
      Company has experienced reduced crops due to hurricanes and canker during the
      past two fiscal years, harvesting 3.3 million, 3.9 million and 4.6 million
      90
      pound equivalent boxes of citrus in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004
      respectively. The Company estimates that its fiscal year 2007 crop will be
      approximately 3.5 million boxes.  

The
      fiscal year 2007 crop forecast by the USDA indicates that the supply of Florida
      oranges will be further reduced, which should allow for continued strong prices.
      The USDA forecast is for 135.0 million boxes for fiscal year 2007 compared
      with
      production of 147.9 million boxes in fiscal year 2006, 149.8 million boxes
      in
      fiscal year 2005 and 242.0 million boxes in fiscal year 2004.  

Sugarcane  

Sugarcane
      generated gross profits of $0.4 million, $0.5 million and $2.6 million during
      fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sugarcane revenues were $8.9
      million, $9.3 million and $11.6 million during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
      2004,
      respectively. The decline in sugarcane revenue is a major factor in the
      decreased gross profits of the division. Beginning in fiscal year 2004, the
      USDA
      imposed quotas on the amount of sugarcane that can be harvested. During fiscal
      years 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 342,000, 407,000, and 465,000 standard
      tons of sugarcane were harvested. The Company experienced higher prices for
      sugarcane in fiscal year 2006 when compared to the previous two fiscal years
      ($26.02, $22.91 and $25.02 average price per standard ton during fiscal years
      2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively), however, reduced yields (36.73, 40.71 and
      44.25 standard tons per acre in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively),
      coupled with the rising input costs of fuel and fertilizer, caused margins
      to
      decrease. A large sugar beet crop is expected to result in lower prices for
      finished sugar during fiscal year 2007. 

During
      fiscal year 2006, the Company performed an extensive analysis of yields based
      on
      the age of planted cane, the variety and the historical production of each
      sugarcane plot. Based on this analysis, the Company determined on a plot by
      plot
      basis, the extent of caretaking each plot would receive. In some instances,
      a
      decision was made to place plots on a reduced care program until the plot could
      be harvested and replanted. The expected result of this analysis is that the
      Company s sugarcane crop will be further reduced in fiscal year 2007; however,
      it is also expected that the unit cost per ton will also be reduced, and that
      per acre yields will gradually improve to prior historical levels beginning
      in
      fiscal year 2008. The Company is committed to  

29 

producing
      the maximum return per acre on the acreage currently being used for sugarcane
      production and will continue to explore alternatives in order to meet this
      goal. 

Cattle  

Gross
      profits from the sale of cattle were $0.8 million, $2.1 million and $1.5 million
      for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Cattle
      revenues were $5.7 million, $11.0 million and $9.7 million over the same
      periods. During fiscal year 2005, in order to take advantage of record high
      prices for calves, the Company sold a portion of its calf crop that would have
      normally been delivered to western feedlots. Calves delivered to western
      feedlots require an additional nine months of preparation before they are ready
      for sale. Due to the sale of the calves in the prior fiscal year as described
      above, more animals were sold during fiscal year 2005 than in the subsequent
      or
      prior fiscal year. During fiscal year 2006, 7,454 animals were sold at an
      average price of $0.89 per pound. In fiscal year 2005, 13,257 animals were
      sold
      at an average price of $0.90 per pound, and in fiscal year 2004, 10,603 animals
      were sold at an average price of $0.82 per pound. Cattle prices tend to run
      in
      cycles of 10 years. The Company believes that the cattle market may have peaked
      in fiscal year 2005. 

The
      eye
      of Hurricane Wilma, a category 3 hurricane, passed over Alico s cattle ranch on
      October 24, 2005, generally stressing the cattle herd. In its aftermath, many
      of
      the Company s cattle pastures were underwater for an extended period. Due to the
      stress of the hurricane and a temporary reduction in nutrition, the number
      of
      calves born in fiscal 2006 was reduced approximately 5% from the previous year.
      Furthermore, early estimates are that the fiscal year 2007 calf crop may be
      reduced by up to 10% of the fiscal 2006 level. In an effort to improve
      conception and general nutrition, the Company is reducing its cattle herd.

Plant
      World  

In
      fiscal
      year 2006, Plant World sold 85.8 million vegetable transplants generating gross
      revenues of $3.3 million. In fiscal year 2005, Plant World sold 69.9 million
      vegetable transplants and generated gross revenues of $2.6 million. Plant
      World s operations generated a loss of $1.1 million in fiscal year 2006 compared
      with a profit of $0.5 million in fiscal year 2005. During the spring of 2005,
      Plant World s off season, the Company began to inventory overhead costs in
      anticipation of a verbal commitment for a large order. Subsequently, the
      customer withdrew the offer, and Plant World was not able to replace the volume
      during its fall growing season. This caused Plant World to reduce its inventory
      by $1.0 million to its net realizable value and experience unused capacity
      within its facility, driving the unit costs of plants higher. A further
      complication arose as fuel prices continued to rise. Plant World had made
      commitments to deliver at set prices and in some cases, at very low margins.
      The
      increased delivery costs reduced margins to below cost in many cases. Although
      Plant World was eventually able to exceed its prior year volume, the additional
      plants were spring vegetable varieties which traditionally have lower margins
      than fall varieties. 

The
      operations of Plant World also suffered from uninsurable hurricane damage and
      pricing below cost per unit. Beginning in fiscal year 2007, Plant World is
      expanding into several ornamental varieties with higher profit margins per
      unit.
      As a result, Plant World s results are expected to improve in fiscal year 2007
      and beyond as it begins to fully scale up production of the new varieties.
      In
      the meantime, Plant World has also changed its pricing policies, particularly
      with regards to delivered prices for vegetable transplants. 

Vegetables  

Alico
      began farming sweet corn and green beans in fiscal year 2006. The Company
      planted 250 acres of corn and 250 acres of green beans in the fall of both
      2005
      and 2006. The first crops were totally devastated by hurricane Wilma in October
      2005 and had to be replanted. The Company harvested a total of 77 thousand
      boxes
      of green beans at an average price of $13.73 per box and 119 thousand crates
      of
      corn at an average price of $11.18 per crate. In its initial year of operations,
      the vegetable segment generated revenue of $2.4 million and a gross profit
      of
      $1.0 million. 

30 

For
      fiscal year 2007, the Company plans to double the acreage of corn and green
      beans, growing 500 acres of each in the fall of 2006 and the spring of 2007.
      As
      in any agricultural operation, past results of the vegetable segment are not
      necessarily indicative of future performance. 

Sod  

The
      Company had 472 acres of cultivated sod in production during fiscal years 2006,
      2005 and 2004. The company harvested approximately 12.6 million, 4.8 million
      and
      17.2 million square feet of cultivated sod in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively, generating revenues of $0.8 million, $0.3 million and $0.8 million
      during each fiscal year respectively. Additionally, the Company harvested 15.9
      million and 1.8 million square feet of uncultivated sod generating revenue
      of
      $0.7 million and $0.1 million during fiscal years 2006 and 2005,
      respectively. 

The
      Company is currently developing an additional 500 acres of cultivated sod.
      The
      Company entered into an agreement in fiscal year 2006 with a United States
      sod
      wholesaler to market its crop. Additionally, the Company began selling
      additional native uncultivated sod (bahia) to local landscapers from its
      pastures in fiscal year 2006.  

Native
      trees and shrubs  

The
      Company sells sabal palms, palm fans, oak trees and other native horticultural
      commodities. These products are sold to landscaping companies in Florida. The
      Company does not incur any of the harvesting expenses for any of its tree or
      shrub sales. Gross profits from these operations were $0.1 million, $0.2 million
      and $0.4 million during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

31 

Non
      Agricultural Operations  

Saddlebag  

During
      fiscal year 2006, Saddlebag sold the last of its developed lots. Gross profits
      from the sale of lots during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $0.1 million,
      $0.5 million and $0.2 million respectively. 

Land
      leasing and rentals  

Revenues
      from land rentals were $1.4 million, $1.9 million and $1.2 million during fiscal
      years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, generating gross profits of $0.9
      million, $1.3 million and $0.8 million. The Company is committed to leasing
      more
      of its land when overall profitability can be enhanced. 

Mining
      royalties  

Gross
      profit from the sale of rock products and sand were $0.9 million, $3.0 million
      and $3.4 million during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
      Lee
      County property on which a major portion of the mining operations was located,
      was sold in fiscal year 2005.  

In
      May
      2006, the Company purchased a 523 acre riverfront mine site for rock and fill
      for $10.6 million cash. The Company has allocated approximately 54% of the
      purchase price to the rock and sand reserves with the remaining 46% of the
      purchase price allocated as residual land value based on the present value
      of
      the expected rock royalties over 20 years and the expected residual value of
      the
      property after that time. Rock and sand reserves will be depleted and charged
      to
      cost of goods sold proportionately as the property is mined.  

Additionally,
      the Company is currently seeking a permit for a rock mine on its
      Hendry County property. Other properties are currently being evaluated for
      additional mine sites. 

Off
      Balance Sheet Arrangements  

      ______________________________ 

The
      Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Bowen Brothers Fruit, LLC enters
      into purchase contracts for the purchase of citrus products during the normal
      course of its business. Typically, these purchases are covered by sales
      contracts. The purchase obligations under these purchase agreements totaled
      $7.4
      million at August 31, 2006. All of these purchases were covered by sales
      agreements. None of these agreements were in a net loss position as of August
      31, 2006. All of these contracts will be fulfilled by the end of the fiscal
      year
      2007. Additionally, the Company hedges a portion of its fuel requirements
      through the purchase of fuel stocks at fixed prices for future deliveries.
      The
      net obligations under these arrangement totaled $192 thousand at August 31,
      2006. Deliveries under these contracts will occur before October 31,
      2006. 

32 

Disclosure
      of Contractual Obligations   

      _____________________________________ 

The
      contractual obligations of the Company at August 31, 2006 are set forth in
      the
      table below: 

(a)
        This
        obligation represents a contingency accrual related to income taxes.  See
        Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Critical
      Accounting Policies and Estimates   

The
      preparation of the Company s financial statements and related disclosures in
      conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
      of
      America requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the
      reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
      disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis,
      management evaluates the estimates and assumptions based upon historical
      experience and various other factors and circumstances. Management believes
      that
      the estimates and assumptions are reasonable in the circumstances; however,
      actual results may vary from these estimates and assumptions under different
      future circumstances. The following critical accounting policies have been
      identified that affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in
      the
      preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 

Net
      Realizable Value    
      - The
      Company records inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
      Management regularly assesses estimated inventory valuations based on current
      and forecasted usage of the related commodity and any other relevant factors
      that may affect the net realizable value. 

33 

Revenue
      Recognition    -
      Based
      on fruit buyers' and processors' advances to growers, stated cash and futures
      markets combined with experience in the industry, management reviews the
      reasonableness of the citrus revenue accrual. Adjustments are made throughout
      the year to these estimates as more current relevant information regarding
      the
      citrus market becomes available. Differences between the estimates and the
      final
      realization of revenues can be significant, and the differences between
      estimated and final results can be either positive or negative. Fluctuation
      in
      the market prices for citrus fruit has caused the Company to recognize
      additional revenue from prior years  crop totaling $838 thousand, $357 thousand,
      and $728 thousand during fiscal year 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Income
      from sugarcane under a pooled agreement is recognized at the time the crop
      is
      harvested. Based on the processor s advance payment, past sugarcane prices and
      its experience in the industry, management reviews the reasonableness of the
      sugarcane revenue accrual. Adjustments are made as additional relevant
      information regarding the sugar market becomes available. Market price changes
      to the sugar pool have caused the Company to adjust revenue from the prior
      year s crop by $169 thousand, ($198 thousand), and $325 thousand during the
      fiscal year 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. 

For
      sales
      made through Bowen, the Company applies the provisions of Emerging Issues Task
      Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 99-19,   Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus
      Net as an Agent.  The Company s application of EITF 99-19 includes evaluation of
      the terms of each major customer contract relative to a number of criteria
      that
      management considers in making its determination with respect to gross versus
      net reporting of revenue for transactions with its customers. Management s
      criteria for making these judgments place particular emphasis on determining
      the
      primary obligor in a transaction and which party bears general inventory risk.
      Bowen purchases and resells citrus fruit, in these transactions, Bowen (i)
      acts
      as principal; (ii) takes title to the products; and (iii) has the risks and
      rewards of ownership, including the risk of loss for collection, delivery or
      returns. For these transactions, Bowen recognizes revenues based on the gross
      amounts due from customers. 

In
      recognizing revenue from land sales, the Company follows the provisions in
      Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Statement of Financial Accounting
      Standards, or SFAS, No. 66,  Accounting for Sales of Real Estate,  to
      record these sales. SFAS No. 66 provides specific sales recognition
      criteria to determine when land sales revenue can be recorded. For example,
      SFAS
      No. 66 requires a land sale must be consummated with a sufficient down
      payment of at least 20% to 25% of the sales price depending upon the type and
      timeframe for development of the property sold, and that any receivable from
      the
      sale cannot be subject to future subordination. In addition, the seller cannot
      retain any material continuing involvement in the property sold. 

Capitalized
      Costs    
      - In
      accordance with Statement of Position 85-3 "Accounting by Agricultural Producers
      and Agricultural Cooperatives", the cost of growing crops are capitalized into
      inventory until the time of harvest. Once a given crop is harvested, the related
      inventoried costs are recognized as a cost of sale to provide an appropriate
      matching of costs incurred with the related revenue earned. 

34 

Impairment
      of Long-Lived Assets     
      -   
      The
      Company evaluates property and equipment and capitalized development costs
      for
      our sugarcane and citrus groves for impairment when events or changes in
      circumstances indicate that the carrying value of assets contained in the
      Company s financial statements may not be recoverable. The impairment
      calculation compares the carrying value of the asset to the asset s estimated
      future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges). If the estimated
      future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, the Company
      calculates an impairment loss. The impairment loss calculation compares the
      carrying value of the asset to the asset s estimated fair value, which may be
      based on estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest charges).
      The
      Company recognizes an impairment loss if the amount of the asset s carrying
      value exceeds the asset s estimated fair value. If an impairment loss is
      recognized, the adjusted carrying amount of the asset will be its new cost
      basis. For a depreciable long-lived asset, the new cost basis will be
      depreciated (amortized) over the remaining useful life of that asset.
      Restoration of a previously recognized impairment loss is prohibited. The
      Company operates in several segments and there have been no indicators of
      impairment. 

Defined
      Benefit Retirement Plans     
      -   
      The
      Company has a defined benefit deferred compensation plan, whose plan assets
      consist primarily of marketable equity and debt instruments, and are valued
      using market quotations. Pension benefit obligations and the related effects
      on
      operations are calculated using actuarial models. Two critical assumptions
      -
      discount rate and expected return on assets - are important elements of plan
      expense and asset/liability measurement. The Company evaluates these critical
      assumptions at least annually. Other assumptions involving demographic factors
      such as retirement age, mortality and turnover are evaluated periodically and
      are updated to reflect the Company s experience. Actual results in any given
      year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other
      factors. The discount rate enables the Company to state expected future cash
      flows at a present value on the measurement date. In determining the discount
      rate, the Company utilizes the yield on high-quality, fixed-income investments
      currently available with maturities corresponding to the anticipated timing
      of
      the benefit payments. At August 31, 2006, the discount rate used to
      compute the Company s defined benefit deferred compensation plan was
      5.25%.  

Income
      Taxes     
      -
   Deferred
      income taxes are recognized for the income tax effect of temporary differences
      between financial statement carrying amounts and the income tax bases of assets
      and liabilities. The Company regularly reviews its deferred income tax assets
      to
      determine whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize the
      benefits of these assets. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred income
      tax assets for which it is deemed more likely than not that future taxable
      income will not be sufficient to realize the related income tax benefits from
      these assets. The amount of the net deferred income tax asset that is considered
      realizable could, however, be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income
      are
      adjusted. 

The
      Company believes its tax positions comply with the applicable tax laws and
      that
      it is adequately provided for all tax related matters.     The
      Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a thirty day letter dated August 14,
      2006
      pertaining to ongoing audits of Alico for the tax years 2000 through 2004.
      The
      letter proposes changes to the Company's tax liabilities for each of these
      tax
      years and required the Company either a) to agree with the changes and remit
      the
      specified taxes and penalties, or b) to submit a rebuttal within 30 days. The
      Company sought and received an extension of time to submit its rebuttal until
      October 16, 2006 and timely submitted the rebuttal on October 13,
      2006. 

35 

In
      the
      thirty day letter, the IRS proposed several alternative theories as a basis
      for
      its argument that Alico should have reported additional taxable income in the
      years under audit. These theories principally relate to the formation and
      capitalization of the Company's Agri Insurance subsidiary and its tax exempt
      status during the years under audit. Under the theories proposed, the IRS has
      calculated additional taxes and penalties due ranging from a minimum of $35.4
      million dollars to a maximum of $86.4 million dollars. The letter does not
      quantify the interest on the proposed taxes.  

The
      Company does not accept the IRS position and intends to continue to oppose
      vigorously any attempt by the IRS to impose such assessment in connection with
      the Agri Insurance matter. However, b  ecause
      Management believes it is probable that a challenge will be made and probable
      that the challenge may be successful as to some of the possible
      assertions, Management has provided for the contingency.   The
      Company has accrued a liability of $20.3 million and $17.0 million for the
      contingency in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively .  

Should
      the IRS prevail in its primary position, the effect would be to significantly
      reduce the liquidity of the Company, and could cause the Company to default
      on
      several of its loan covenants.  

36 

Item
      7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market
      Risk   

Alico s
      exposure to market rate risk and changes in interest rates relate primarily
      to
      its investment portfolio and revolving credit lines. Investments are placed
      with
      high quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to
      any
      one issuer. Alico is adverse to principal loss and provides for the safety
      and
      preservation of invested funds by limiting default, market and reinvestment
      risk. The Company classifies cash equivalents and short-term investments as
      fixed-rate if the rate of return on such instruments remains fixed over their
      term. These fixed-rate investments include fixed-rate U.S. government
      securities, municipal bonds, time deposits and certificates of deposit. Cash
      equivalents and short-term investments are classified as variable-rate if the
      rate of return on such investments varies based on the change in a predetermined
      index or set of indices during their term. These variable-rate investments
      primarily include money market accounts, mutual funds and equities held at
      various securities brokers and investment banks.  

The
      table
      below presents the costs and estimated fair value of the investment portfolio
      at
      August 31, 2006:    

Fixed
      rate securities tend to decline with market rate interest increases. Variable
      rate securities are generally affected more by general market expectations
      and
      conditions. A 1% change in interest rates on the Company s portfolio would
      impact the Company s annual interest revenue by approximately $500 thousand.
      Additionally, the Company has debt with interest rates that vary with LIBOR.
      A
      1% increase in this rate would impact the Company s annual interest expense by
      approximately $523 thousand based on the Company s outstanding debt under these
      agreements at August 31, 2006. 

37 

Item
      8.          
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Report
        of Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting
        Firm   

To
        the
        Stockholders and Board of Directors of 

          Alico,
        Inc. and Subsidiaries    

We
        have
        audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alico, Inc. and
        Subsidiaries as of August 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
        statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income (loss),
        and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 31,
        2006.
        These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
        Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
        based
        on our audits. 

We
        conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
        Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
        we plan
        and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
        statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
        on a
        test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
        statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
        and
        significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
        financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
        reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
        our
        opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
        fairly,
        in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of August
        31,
        2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
        each
        of the three years in the period ended August 31, 2006, in conformity with
        U.S.
        generally accepted accounting principles. 

We
        also
        have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
        Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Alico, Inc. and
        Subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006,
        based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
        issued
        by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)
        and our report dated November 17, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion
        on
        management's assessment of the effectiveness of Alico, Inc.'s internal control
        over financial reporting and an opinion that Alico, Inc. had not maintained
        effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006,
        based
        on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued
        by the
        Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
        (COSO). 

/s/TEDDER,
        JAMES, WORDEN   ASSOCIATES, P.A.  

Orlando,
        Florida 

        November
        17, 2006 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

       Years
      Ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004  

       (in
      thousands except for unit data)  

(1)
      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

(a)
      Basis of Consolidated Financial Statement Presentation  

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Alico, Inc. (Alico)
      and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Saddlebag Lake Resorts, Inc. (Saddlebag),
      Agri-Insurance Company, Ltd. (Agri), Alico-Agri, Ltd., Alico Plant World, LLC
      and Bowen Brothers Fruit, LLC (Bowen) (collectively referred to as the
 Company ), after elimination of all significant intercompany balances and
      transactions. 

(b)
      Revenue Recognition  

Income
      from the sale of citrus is recognized at the time the crop is harvested. Based
      on fruit buyers' and processors' advances to growers, stated cash and futures
      markets combined with experience in the industry, management reviews the
      reasonableness of the citrus revenue accrual. Adjustments are made throughout
      the year to these estimates as relevant information regarding the citrus market
      becomes available. Differences between the estimates and the final realization
      of revenues can be significant, and the differences between estimated and final
      results can be either positive or negative. Fluctuation in the market prices
      for
      citrus fruit has caused the Company to recognize additional revenue from the
      prior years  crops totaling $838 thousand, $357 thousand, and $728 thousand
      during fiscal years  2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

Income
      from sugarcane under a pooled agreement is recognized at the time the crop
      is
      harvested. Based on the processor s advance payment, past sugarcane prices and
      its experience in the industry, management reviews the reasonableness of the
      sugarcane revenue accrual. Adjustments are made as additional relevant
      information regarding the sugar market becomes available. Market price changes
      to the sugar pool have caused the Company to adjust revenue from the prior
      years  crops by $169 thousand, ($198 thousand), and $325 thousand during fiscal
      years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. 

The
      Company recognizes revenue from cattle sales at the time the cattle are sold
      at
      auction. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of vegetables and sod
      at
      the time of harvest. Revenues from the sale of plants is recognized when the
      plants are shipped from the greenhouse. 

For
      sales
      made through Bowen, the Company applies the provisions of Emerging Issues Task
      Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 99-19,   Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus
      Net as an Agent.  The Company s application of EITF 99-19 includes evaluation of
      the terms of each major customer contract relative to a number of criteria
      that
      management considers in making its determination with respect to gross versus
      net reporting of revenue for transactions with its customers. Management s
      criteria for making these judgments place particular emphasis on determining
      the
      primary obligor in a transaction and which party bears general inventory risk.
      Bowen purchases and resells citrus fruit, in these transactions, Bowen (i)
      acts
      as principal; (ii) takes title to the products; and (iii) has the risks and
      rewards of ownership, including the risk of loss for collection, delivery or
      returns. For these transactions, Bowen recognizes revenues based on the gross
      amounts due from customers. 

(c)
      Real Estate  

Real
      estate sales are recorded under the accrual method of accounting. Residential
      retail land sales made through Saddlebag are not recognized until the buyer s
      initial investment or cumulative payments of principal and interest equal or
      exceed 10% of the contract sales price.  

Gains
      from commercial or bulk land sales, made mostly through Alico-Agri, Ltd., are
      not recognized until payments received for property to be developed within
      two
      years after the sale equal 20%, or property to be developed after two years
      equal 25% of the contract sales price according to the installment sales method.

45 

Tangible
      assets that are purchased during the period to aid in the sale of the project
      as
      well as costs for services performed to obtain regulatory approval of the sales
      are capitalized as land and land improvements to the extent they are estimated
      to be recoverable from the sale of the property. Land and land improvement
      costs
      are allocated to individual parcels on a per lot basis using the relative sales
      value method.  

The
      costs
      incurred to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals are capitalized into
      land
      costs when paid. These costs will be expensed as cost of sales when the
      underlying real estate is sold.  

(d)
      Marketable Securities Available for Sale  

Marketable
      securities available for sale are carried at their fair value. Net unrealized
      investment gains and losses are recorded net of related deferred taxes in
      accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders' equity until
      realized. Unrealized losses determined to be other than temporary are recognized
      in the statment of operations in the period the determination is
      made. 

Fair
      value for debt and equity investments is based on quoted market prices at the
      reporting date for those or similar investments. The cost of all marketable
      securities available for sale is determined on the specific identification
      method. 

(e)
      Inventories  

The
      costs
      of growing crops are capitalized into inventory until the time of harvest.
      Once
      a given crop is harvested, the related inventoried costs are recognized as
      a
      cost of sale to provide an appropriate matching of costs incurred with the
      related revenue earned.  

The
      Company states its inventories at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
      The
      cost for unharvested crops is based on accumulated production costs incurred
      during the eight-month period from January 1 through August 31. The cost of
      the
      beef cattle inventory is based on the accumulated cost of developing such
      animals for sale. The cost of greenhouse plants is based on the actual costs
      of
      production for such plants. 

(f)
      Mortgages and notes receivable  

Mortgages
      and notes receivable arise from real estate sales. Mortgages and notes
      receivable are carried at their estimated net realizable value. In circumstances
      where the stated interest rate is below the prevailing market rate, the note
      is
      discounted to yield the market rate of interest. The discount offsets the
      carrying amount of the mortgages and notes receivable. 

Under
      the
      installment method of accounting, gains from commercial or bulk land sales
      are
      not recognized until payments received for property equal or exceed 20% of
      the
      contract sales price. Such gains are recorded as deferred revenue and offset
      the
      carrying amount of the mortgages and notes receivable. 

46 

(g)
      Accounts receivable  

Accounts
      receivable are generated from the sale of citrus, sugarcane, sod, cattle,
      vegetables, plants and other transactions. The Company provides an allowance
      for
      doubtful trade receivables equal to the estimated uncollectible amounts. That
      estimate is based on historical collection experience, current economic and
      market conditions, and a review of the current status of each customer s trade
      accounts receivable. 

(h)
      Property, Buildings and Equipment  

Property,
      buildings and equipment are stated at cost. Properties acquired from the
      Company's predecessor corporation in exchange for common stock issued in 1960,
      at the inception of the Company, are stated on the basis of cost to the
      predecessor corporation. Property acquired as part of a land exchange trust,
      is
      valued at the carrying value of the property transferred to the
      trust. 

All
      costs
      related to the development of citrus groves, through planting, are capitalized.
      Such costs include land clearing, excavation and construction of ditches, dikes,
      roads, and reservoirs, etc. After the planting, caretaking costs or
      pre-productive maintenance costs are capitalized for four years. After four
      years, a grove is considered to have reached maturity and the accumulated costs,
      except for land excavation, become the depreciable basis of a grove and
      depreciated over 25 years.  

Development
      costs for sugarcane are capitalized the same as citrus. However, sugarcane
      matures in one year and the Company is able to harvest an average of 3 crops
      (1
      per year) from one planting. As a result, cultivation/caretaking costs are
      expensed as the crop is harvested, while the appropriate development and
      planting costs are depreciated over 3 years.  

The
      breeding herd consists of purchased animals and animals raised on the ranch.
      Purchased animals are stated at cost. The cost of animals raised on the ranch
      is
      based on the accumulated cost of developing such animals for productive use.

Depreciation
      for financial reporting purposes is computed on straight-line or accelerated
      methods over the estimated useful lives of the various classes of depreciable
      assets. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 

The
      Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of
      SFAS
      No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets".
      This
      Statement requires long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be
      reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
      that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability
      of
      assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount
      of
      an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If
      such
      are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured
      by
      the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value
      of
      the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying
      amount or fair value less costs to sell.   

47 

(i)
      Land Inventories  

Land
      inventories are carried at cost and consist of property located in Lee County,
      Florida owned by Alico-Agri, Ltd. The Lee County property is held for sale
      as
      commercial real estate. Land inventory is considered a current asset if sales
      contracts for the property are expected to close within one year of the balance
      sheet date. Land inventory is grouped under the caption other current
      assets. 

(j)
      Other Investments  

Other
      investments are carried at cost. These primarily include stock owned in
      agricultural cooperatives and loan origination fees. The Company uses
      cooperatives to process and sell sugarcane and citrus. Cooperatives typically
      require members to acquire stock ownership as a condition for the of use of
      its
      services. 

During
      fiscal year 2006, the Company entered into and later amended a Credit Facility
      with a commercial bank for a $175.0 million line of credit which matures on
      August 1, 2010. Loan origination and other related fees totaling $750 thousand
      were included in the August 31, 2006 balance sheet as other investments and
      are
      being amortized over the life of the Credit Facility. The amortization expense
      was $124 thousand for fiscal year 2006. 

(k)
      Income Taxes  

The
      Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Under
      this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future
      tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
      carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
      bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
      expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
      differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred
      tax
      assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in
      the
      period that includes the enactment date.  

(l)
      Net Earnings Per Share  

Outstanding
      stock options and restricted stock shares represent the only dilutive effects
      reflected in the computation of weighted average shares outstanding assuming
      dilution. There were no stock options issued that could potentially dilute
      basic
      earnings per share in the future that were not included in the computation
      of
      earnings per share assuming dilution. 

(m)
      Cash Flows  

For
      purposes of the cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand
      and
      investments with an original maturity of less than three months. 

(n)
      Use of Estimates  

In
      preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is required to
      make
      estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
      liabilities. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates.
      Although some variability is inherent in these estimates, management believes
      that the amounts provided are adequate. The valuation of the Company s
      inventories, the estimated tax contingency and the recognition of citrus and
      sugarcane revenues are some of the more significant estimates made by
      Management.   

48 

(o)
      Financial Instruments and Accruals   

The
      carrying amounts in the consolidated balance sheets for accounts receivable,
      mortgages and notes receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses
      approximate fair value because of the immediate or short term maturity of these
      items. Where stated interest rates are below market, the Company has discounted
      mortgage notes receivable to reflect their estimated fair market value. The
      carrying amounts reported for the Company's long-term debt approximates fair
      value because they are transactions with commercial lenders at interest rates
      that vary with market conditions and fixed rates that approximate market.

(p)
      Derivative and Hedging Instruments   

The
      Company, from time to time, engages in cattle futures trading activities for
      the
      purpose of economically hedging against price fluctuations. The Company records
      gains and losses related to these cattle hedges in costs of goods sold. At
      August 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had no open positions in cattle futures.
      The Company also purchases, from time to time, corn futures in order to lock
      in
      the cost of raising feeder cattle over the feeding term. At August 31, 2006
      and
      2005, the Company had no open positions in corn futures. The Company, through
      its investment portfolio, also may hedge using options or short sales. These
      transactions are recorded as interest and investment income. 

(q)
      Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

Comprehensive
      income is defined as the change in equity of a business enterprise during a
      period from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner
      sources. It includes both net income and other comprehensive income or loss.
      Items included in other comprehensive income or losses are classified based
      on
      their nature. The total of other comprehensive income or loss for a period
      has
      been transferred to an equity account and displayed as "accumulated other
      comprehensive income (loss) . 

(r)
      Stock-Based Compensation  

Prior
      to
      the 2006 fiscal year, the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation
      under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board
      Opinion No. 25,       Accounting
      for Stock Issued to Employees and related interpretations ( APB 25 ). 
Under APB 25, stock-based compensation cost was reflected in net income for
      grants of stock options based on the difference between the exercise price
      and
      the fair market value of the stock on the date of issue. 

Effective
      September 1, 2005, the Company adopted the modified prospective transition
      method under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004)
       Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ), which requires the measurement and
      recognition of compensation cost at fair value for all share-based payments,
      including stock options and restricted share awards.  Stock-based
      compensation recognized for fiscal year 2006 was approximately $329 thousand
      and
      is included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement
      of operations.  This expense includes compensation expense, recognized over
      the applicable vesting periods, for new share-based awards and for share-based
      awards granted prior to, but not yet vested, as of August 31, 2006.  See
      Note 8        Stock-Based
      Compensation  in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

The
      following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share
      of
      the Company had the Company applied the fair value recognition provisions of
      FASB Statement No. 123,        Accounting
      for Stock-Based Compensation  , relating to stock-based employee compensation
      for the years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004: 

49 

No
      stock
      options were granted during fiscal years 2006 and 2005. The fair value of stock
      options granted was $1.7 million in 2004 on the date of the grant using the
      Black Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
      assumptions: 

Estimates
      of volatility, dividends and the expected life of the options were based on
      the
      experience of the Company. The risk free interest rate was based on rates
      published by the Department of the Treasury for bonds with expected lives
      similar to the expected option life. 

(s)
      Reclassifications  

Certain
      amounts from 2005 and 2004 have been reclassified to conform to the 2006
      presentation.  

50 

(t)
      Major customers  

Alico
      is
      a producer of agricultural commodities. Due to the limited number of processors
      of its raw products, geographic limitations and historic success, the Company s
      citrus and sugarcane sales are concentrated to a few customers. Details
      concerning the sales and receivables from these customers are as follows for
      the
      years ended August 31: 

Sales
      made through the citrus fruit marketer represented approximately 78%, 76% and
      75% of the Company s citrus grove revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
      2004, respectively, and approximately 22%, 36% and 35% of total operating
      revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

Sales
      made through the sugarcane processor represented 100% of the Company s sugarcane
      revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 and 12%, 17% and 22% of total
      operating revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

2)
      Marketable Securities Available for Sale  

The
      Company has classified 100% of its investments in marketable securities as
      available for sale and, as such, the securities are carried at estimated fair
      value. Any unrealized gains and losses, net of related deferred taxes, are
      recorded as a net amount in a separate component of stockholders' equity until
      realized. In accordance with the provisions of EITF Issue No. 03-1, which became
      effective for reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2004, the Company
      identified those investments at August 31, 2005 which were deemed to be other
      than temporarily impaired and included the losses in the statement of operations
      for fiscal year 2005. No investments at August 31, 2006 were deemed to be other
      than temporarily impaired. 

51 

Realized
      gains and losses on the disposition of securities were as follows: 

In
      evaluating whether a security was other than temporarily impaired, the Company
      considered the severity and length of time impaired for each security in a
      loss
      position. Other qualitative data was also considered including recent
      developments specific to the organization issuing the security. The following
      table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company s
      investments with unrealized losses that are not deemed to be other than
      temporarily impaired, aggregated by investment category and length of time
      that
      individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at
      August 31, 2006: 

52 

Equity
      securities and funds   .
      At
      August 31, 2006, the Company held no positions in equity
      securities. 

During
      the year ended August 31, 2005, equity investments with a combined cost basis
      of
      $1.7 million were determined to be other than temporarily impaired. An
      adjustment of $399 thousand was made to reduce the cost basis of the securities
      and was recognized as a reduction in interest and investment
      income. 

Debt
      instruments and funds   .
      The
      unrealized losses on municipal bonds, debt mutual funds, fixed maturity funds
      and corporate bonds were primarily due to changes in interest rates. At August
      31, 2006 the Company held loss positions in 15 government backed bonds, 2 debt
      based mutual funds, 66 fixed maturity funds, consisting mostly of certificates
      of deposit, and 14 corporate bond positions. Because the decline in market
      values of these securities is attributable to changes in interest rates and
      not
      credit quality and because the Company has the ability and intent to hold these
      investments until a recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the Company
      does not believe any of the unrealized losses represent other than temporary
      impairment based on evaluations of available evidence as of August 31,
      2006. 

53 

In
      July
      2005, Alico-Agri sold property in Lee County, Florida for $62.9 million. At
      the
      time of sale, the Company received a down payment of $6.2 million in cash and
      a
      2.5% interest bearing mortgage note of $56.6 million in exchange for the land
      sold. Under the terms of the note, equal annual principal payments of $14.2
      million are receivable, together with related interest over a four year period
      following approval of the development order. The first payment is to be received
      no later than three years after the date of sale. Interest under the note does
      not begin to accrue until a development order is received for the property
      sold.
      The note has been discounted by $2.8 million to reflect the prevailing market
      rate of interest. The Company has also deferred $43.2 million of gain related
      to
      the sale, until aggregate receipts under the contract total at least 20% of
      the
      sales price. The current portion of the mortgages and notes receivable is
      included with  Other current assets  in the accompanying consolidated balance
      sheets. 

54 

The
      Company records its inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
      At
      August 31, 2006, the Company wrote down cattle inventory by $35 thousand. At
      August 31, 2005, the cost basis for all inventories was below estimated net
      realizable value. 

Hurricane
      Wilma, a category three hurricane, swept through southwest Florida during the
      first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The hurricane caused extensive damage to
      the
      Company s crops and infrastructure in Collier and Hendry Counties. Additionally,
      hurricanes in fiscal years 2005 and 2004 also caused damages to citrus crops,
      primarily in Polk County. 

In
      fiscal
      year 2005, citrus canker was discovered in three of the Company s citrus grove
      locations. Citrus canker is a highly contagious bacterial disease of citrus
      that
      causes premature leaf and fruit drop. Citrus canker causes no threat to humans,
      animals or plant life other than citrus. In 2005, Florida law required that
      infected and exposed trees within 1900 feet of the canker find be removed and
      destroyed. The Company s traditional policy has been to recognize a loss
      estimate for the total destruction of all trees within 1,900 feet of the canker
      find as soon as canker was confirmed. This estimate of loss damage preceded
      the
      actual destruction of the trees. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006,
      the USDA determined that due to the potential spread of canker from hurricanes
      they did not believe that canker eradication was feasible. Due to this
      determination, the rule requiring the destruction of citrus groves testing
      positive for canker was suspended. Upon suspension of the rule requiring the
      destruction of citrus groves, those portions of inventory that were previously
      estimated as lost but had not yet been destroyed were reestablished, reducing
      the casualty loss accrued. 

As
      a
      result of the hurricane and canker discoveries, the Company recognized casualty
      losses related to inventoried costs as follows: 

55 

Inventory
      Damage  

For
      further information regarding the casualty losses, please refer to Note 12
      of
      the consolidated financial statements. 

In
          fiscal
          year 2005, citrus canker was discovered in three of the Company s citrus grove
          locations. Citrus canker is a highly contagious bacterial disease of citrus
          that
          causes premature leaf and fruit drop. Citrus canker causes no threat to
          humans,
          animals or plant life other than citrus. In 2005, Florida law required
          that
          infected and exposed trees within 1900 feet of the canker find be removed
          and
          destroyed. In 2005, the Company wrote off the remaining basis of the trees,
          totaling $4.4 million as a result of these discoveries. The remaining basis
          and
          inventoried costs, net of expected insurance recoveries were charged to
          fiscal
          year 2005 operations as a casualty loss.  

56 

During
      the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the USDA suspended the rule requiring
      the destruction of canker. As a result, some of the trees that were scheduled
      for removal and had been written off as a casualty loss in 2005, were
      reestablished during fiscal year 2006. Trees with a basis of $1.3 million
      previously recognized as a casualty loss in fiscal year 2005 were added back
      to
      fixed assets and credited to fiscal year 2006 operations as a casualty recovery
      (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). 

In
      November 2005, the Company sold approximately 280 acres of citrus grove land
      located south of La Belle, Florida in Hendry County for $5.6 million cash.
      The
      Company will retain operating rights to the grove until residential development
      begins. The Company recognized a net profit on the sale of $4.4
      million. 

In
      October 2005, the Company, through Alico-Agri, Ltd., purchased 291 acres of
      lakefront property in Polk County, Florida, for $9.2 million cash. 

In
      May
      2006, the Company purchased a 523 acre riverfront mine site for rock and fill
      in
      Glades County, Florida, for $10.6 million cash. The Company has allocated
      approximately 54% of the purchase price to the rock and sand reserve with the
      remaining 46% of the purchase price allocated as residual land value based
      on
      the present value of the expected rock royalties to be received over 20 years
      and the expected value of the property after that time. Rock and sand reserves
      are being charged to cost of goods sold proportionately as the property is
      mined. 

(6)
      Indebtedness  

In
      October 2005, Alico, Inc. entered into a Credit Facility with a commercial
      lender. The Credit Facility provided the Company with a $175.0 million revolving
      line of credit until August 1, 2010 to be used for general corporate purposes
      including: (i) the normal operating needs of the Company and its operating
      divisions, (ii) to refinance existing lines of credit and (iii) to finance
      the
      Ginn Receivable (as defined in the Loan Agreement). The terms also allowed
      an
      annual extension at the lender s option. 

In
      May
      2006 the above Credit Facility was amended  Amended Credit Facility  and
      restated to modify certain terms. Per the Amended Credit Facility, the $175.0
      million revolving line of credit, which matures on August 1, 2010, may be used
      for general corporate purposes including: (i) the normal operating needs of
      the
      Company and its operating divisions, (ii) the purchase of capital assets and
      (iii) the payment of dividends. The Amended Credit Facility also allows for
      an
      annual extension at the lender s option. 

Under
      the
      Amended Credit Facility, revolving borrowings require quarterly interest
      payments at LIBOR plus a variable rate between 0.8% and 1.5% depending on the
      Company s debt ratio. The Amended Credit Facility is partially collateralized by
      mortgages on two parcels of agricultural property located in Hendry County,
      Florida consisting of 7,672 acres and 33,700 acres. 

Under
      the
      Amended Credit Facility an event of default occurs if the Company fails to
      make
      the payments required of it or otherwise fails to fulfill the related provisions
      and covenants. In the event of default, the Amended Credit Facility shall bear
      interest at a rate of 2% greater than the then-current rate specified in the
      Amended Credit Facility. In the event of default, the lender may, alternatively
      at its option, terminate its revolving credit commitment and require immediate
      payment of the entire unpaid principal amount of the Amended Credit Facility,
      accrued interest and declare all other obligations immediately due and payable.
      The Company is currently in compliance with all of the covenants and provisions
      of the Amended Credit Facility. 

The
      Amended Credit Facility also contains numerous restrictive covenants including
      those requiring the Company to maintain minimum levels of net worth, retain
      certain debt, current and fixed charge coverage ratios, and set limitations
      on
      the extension of loans or additional borrowings by the Company or any
      subsidiary. 

57 

Outstanding
      debts under the Company s various loan agreements were as follows at August 31,
      2006 and 2005: 

a)
                    Terms described above 

b)
                    5-year fixed rate term loan with commercial lender. $2 million
                    principal
                    due annually.   Interest
                    due quarterly.  

c)
                    First mortgage on 7,680 acres of cane, citrus, pasture and improvements
                    in
                    Hendry  County,
                    Florida with commercial lender. Monthly principal payments of
                    $106
                    thousand  plus
                    accrued interest.   

d)
                    First mortgage on a parcel of land in Polk County, Florida with
                    private
                    seller. Annual  equal
                    payments of $55 thousand.  

e)
                    Line of credit with commercial bank, refinanced in October,
                    2005. 

f)
                    Working capital loan with commercial bank due on demand. Refinanced
                    in
                    October, 2005. 

g)
                    Line of credit with commercial bank, refinanced in October,
                    2005. 

LIBOR
      was
      5.33% and 3.69% at August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company s
      variable interest rates, based on LIBOR at August 31, 2006 and 2005 were
      approximately 6.33% and 4.69%, respectively. 

The
        Company's debt agreements contain covenants that require that the Company
        maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth levels.   The
        covenants also restrict the Company's activities regarding investments, liens,
        borrowing and leasing.  At August 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance
        with all financial and other covenants.  

58 

(7)
      Other non-current liability  

Alico
      formed a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Agri Insurance Company, Ltd.
      (Bermuda) ("Agri") in June of 2000. Agri was formed in response to the lack
      of
      insurance availability, both in the traditional commercial insurance markets
      and
      governmental sponsored insurance programs, suitable to provide coverage for
      the
      increasing number and potential severity of agricultural events. Such events
      include citrus canker, crop diseases, livestock related maladies and weather.
      Alico s goal included not only pre-funding its potential exposures related to
      the aforementioned events, but also to attempt to attract new underwriting
      capital if it is successful in profitably underwriting its own potential risks
      as well as similar risks of its historic business partners.  

Alico
      capitalized Agri by contributing real estate located in Lee County Florida.
      The
      real estate was transferred at its historical cost basis. Agri received a
      determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) stating that Agri
      was exempt from taxation provided that net premium levels, consisting only
      of
      premiums with third parties, were below an annual stated level ($350 thousand).
      Third party premiums have remained below the stated annual level. As the Lee
      County real estate was sold, substantial gains were generated in Agri, creating
      permanent book/tax differences.  

The
      Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a thirty day letter dated August 14,
      2006
      pertaining to ongoing audits of Alico for the tax years 2000 through 2004.
      The
      letter proposes changes to the Company's tax liabilities for each of these
      tax
      years and required the Company either a) to agree with the changes and remit
      the
      specified taxes and penalties, or b) to submit a rebuttal within 30 days. The
      Company sought and received an extension of time to submit its rebuttal until
      October 16, 2006 and timely submitted the rebuttal on October 13,
      2006. 

In
      the
      thirty day letter, the IRS proposed several alternative theories as a basis
      for
      its argument that Alico should have reported additional taxable income in the
      years under audit. These theories principally relate to the formation and
      capitalization of the Company's Agri Insurance subsidiary and its tax exempt
      status during the years under audit. Under the theories proposed, the IRS has
      calculated additional taxes and penalties due ranging from a minimum of $35.4
      million dollars to a maximum of $86.4 million dollars. The letter does not
      quantify the interest on the proposed taxes.  

59 

The
      Company does not accept the IRS position and intends to continue to oppose
      vigorously any attempt by the IRS to impose such assessment in connection with
      the Agri Insurance matter. However, b  ecause
      Management believes it is probable that a challenge will be made and probable
      that the challenge may be successful as to some of the possible
      assertions, Management has provided for the contingency.   The
      Company has accrued a liability of $20.3 million and $17.0 million as of
      August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, for the contingency.  

(8)
      Stock Based Compensation  

On
      November 3, 1998, the Company adopted the Alico, Inc., Incentive Equity Plan
      (The Plan) pursuant to which the Board of Directors of the Company may grant
      options, stock appreciation rights, and/or restricted stock to certain directors
      and employees. The Plan authorized grants of shares or options to purchase
      up to
      650,000 shares of authorized but unissued common stock. Stock options granted
      have a strike price and vesting schedules that are at the discretion of the
      Board of Directors and are determined on the effective date of the grant. The
      strike price cannot be less than 55% of the market price.  No stock options
      were granted during fiscal years 2006 and 2005. 

The
      Company applied       APB
      Opinion 25       for
      options issued to directors and employees in accounting for its Plan prior
      to
      fiscal year 2006. All stock options were granted to directors or employees
      with
      an exercise price equal to at least 55% of the fair value of the common stock
      at
      the date of grant and had a vesting period of one year.  

For
      fiscal year 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123R, which revised Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standard No. 123  Share-Based Payment . SFAS 123R requires
      companies to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for
      an
      award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
      The
      cost is to be recognized over the period during which an employee is required
      to
      provide service in exchange for the award (usually the vesting period). The
      grant date fair value of employee share options and similar instruments will
      be
      estimated using option-pricing models adjusted for the unique characteristics
      of
      those instruments (unless observable market prices for the same or similar
      instruments are available). If an equity award is modified after the grant
      date,
      incremental compensation cost will be recognized in an amount equal to the
      excess of the fair value of the modified award over the fair value of the
      original award immediately before the modification.   

A
      summary
      of option activity under the Plan is as follows: 

At
        August
        31, 2006 and August 31, 2005, there were 9,158 and 16,371 stock options,
        respectively, fully vested and exercisable and 292,844 and 292,844 shares,
        respectively, available for grant. The 9,158 options outstanding as of August
        31, 2006 had a fair value of $382 thousand. There was no unrecognized
        compensation expense related to outstanding stock option grants at August
        31,
        2006. 

60 

In
      fiscal
      year 2006, 7,213 options were exercised having a total fair value of $259
      thousand. In fiscal year 2005, 59,255 options were exercised having a total
      fair
      value of $1.9 million. In fiscal year 2004, 190,537 options were exercised
      having a total fair value of $3.7 million. Compensation expense recognized
      for
      the options granted in fiscal year 2004 was $942 thousand based on the
      difference between the exercise price and fair market value at the date of
      grant
      as prescribed under APB 25. In fiscal year 2004, 119,462 options were granted
      at
      a weighted average grant date fair value of $14.76.  

In
      fiscal
      year 2006, the Company began granting restricted shares to certain key employees
      as long term incentives. The restricted shares vest in four equal annual
      installments. The payment of each installment is subject to continued employment
      with the Company. In fiscal year 2006, there were 4,000 restricted shares vested
      in accordance with these grants.  

The
      table
      below summarizes the Company s restricted share awards granted to
      date: 

The
      shares granted in April 2006 vest 25% in April 2010 and 25% annually thereafter
      until fully vested. The shares granted in July 2006 vest 25% in July 2010 and
      25% annually thereafter until fully vested. Four thousand of the shares granted
      in October 2006 related to past service and were immediately vested.
      The shares granted in October 2006 vested 25% effective August 31, 2006 and
      25% annually thereafter until fully vested. Following the guidelines established
      in FAS 123R, the Company is recognizing compensation cost equal to the fair
      market value of the stock at the grant dates prorated over the vesting period
      of
      each award. The fair value of the unvested restricted stock awards at August
      31,
      2006 was $2.9 million and will be recognized over a weighted average period
      of 6
      years. 

(9)
      Income Taxes  

The
      provision for income taxes for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005
      and
      2004 is summarized as follows: 

61 

Following
      is a reconciliation of the expected income tax expense computed at the U.S.
      Federal statutory rate of 34% and the actual income tax provision for the years
      ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: 

Some
        items of revenue and expense included in the statement of operations may
        not be
        currently taxable or deductible on the income tax returns. Therefore, income
        tax
        assets and liabilities are divided into a current portion, which is the amount
        attributable to the current year s tax return, and a deferred portion, which is
        the amount attributable to another year s tax return. The revenue and expense
        items not currently taxable or deductible are called temporary
        differences. 

62 

The
      tax
      effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
      the
      deferred   tax
      assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented below: 

Based
                on the Company's history of taxable earnings and its expectations
                for the
                future,  management
                has determined that its taxable income will more likely than not
                be
                sufficient to fully recognize all deferred tax
                assets.  

Agri
      Insurance Company, Ltd. (Agri), a wholly owned insurance company subsidiary
      of
      Alico, is treated as a U.S. taxpayer, pursuant to an election under Internal
      Revenue Code Section 953(d), for all purposes except for consolidating an
      operating loss by virtue of the dual consolidated loss rules. (Dual consolidated
      losses prevent operating losses [not capital losses] from occurring in insurance
      companies domiciled outside of the United States from offsetting operating
      income irrespective of the fact that the insurance company is a member of the
      consolidated return group). 

Agri
      was
      established to provide agricultural insurance that falls outside of the Federal
      Crop Insurance Program, for catastrophic perils. Agri was domiciled in Bermuda
      because it offers easy access to reinsurance markets. 

63 

Agri
        issued its initial policy in August 2000 to a third party. Agri's ability
        to
        underwrite insurance risks is limited by its operational liquidity, by the
        Registrar of Companies in Bermuda. For Federal income tax purposes, only
        premiums received by Agri from policies of insurance issued to parties other
        than its parent, Alico, are considered insurance premiums. The preceding
        limiting factors resulted in Agri not incurring a tax liability on underwriting
        profits or investment income. Agri's tax status resulted in it filing its
        Federal tax return on a stand alone basis for the calendar year periods ended
        December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000. 

The
      Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a thirty day letter dated August 14,
      2006
      pertaining to ongoing audits of Alico for the tax years 2000 through 2004.
      The
      letter proposes changes to the Company's tax liabilities for each of these
      tax
      years and required the Company either a) to agree with the changes and remit
      the
      specified taxes and penalties, or b) to submit a rebuttal within 30 days. The
      Company sought and received an extension of time to submit its rebuttal until
      October 16, 2006 and timely submitted the rebuttal on October 13,
      2006. 

In
      the
      thirty day letter, the IRS proposed several alternative theories as a basis
      for
      its argument that Alico should have reported additional taxable income in the
      years under audit. These theories principally relate to the formation and
      capitalization of the Company's Agri Insurance subsidiary and its tax exempt
      status during the years under audit. Under the theories proposed, the IRS has
      calculated additional taxes and penalties due ranging from a minimum of $35.4
      million dollars to a maximum of $86.4 million dollars. The letter does not
      quantify the interest on the proposed taxes.  

The
      Company does not accept the IRS position and intends to continue to oppose
      vigorously any attempt by the IRS to impose such assessment in connection with
      the Agri Insurance matter. However, b  ecause
      Management believes it is probable that a challenge will be made and probable
      that the challenge may be successful as to some of the possible
      assertions, Management has provided for the contingency. During fiscal year
      2006, the Company adjusted its liability accrual by $3.3 million. The adjustment
      was charged to the Company s fiscal year 2006 tax provision.   The
      Company has accrued a total liability of $20.3 million and $17.0 million at
      August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, for the contingency.  

Since
      January 1, 2004 Agri has been filing as a taxable entity. This change in tax
      status is a direct result of changes in the Internal Revenue Code increasing
      premium and other annual income levels. Due to these changes, Agri no longer
      qualifies as a tax-exempt entity.    

(10)
      Related Party Transactions  

Citrus

Citrus
      revenues of $17.2 million, $19.8 million and $18.4 million were recognized
      for a
      portion of citrus crops sold under a marketing agreement with Ben Hill Griffin,
      Inc. (Griffin) for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
      Griffin and its subsidiaries are controlled by Ben Hill Griffin, III, the
      brother-in-law of John R. Alexander, the Company s Chief Executive Officer, and
      was the owner of approximately 49.85 percent of the Company's common stock
      until
      February 26, 2004. Accounts receivable, resulting from citrus sales, include
      amounts due from Griffin totaling $4.4 million at August 31, 2006 and $5.8
      million at August 31, 2005. These amounts represent estimated revenues to be
      received periodically under pooling agreements as sale of pooled products is
      completed.  

64 

Harvesting,
      marketing, and processing costs, for fruit sold through Griffin, totaled $5.5
      million, $6.6 million, and $7.2 million for the years ended August 31, 2006,
      2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, Griffin provided the harvesting
      services for citrus sold to unrelated processors in 2005 and 2004. The aggregate
      cost of these services was $2.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively. The
      accompanying consolidated balance sheets include accounts payable to Griffin
      for
      citrus production, harvesting and processing costs totaling $219 thousand and
      $211 thousand at August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

Other
      Transactions  

In
      fiscal
      year 2004, Agri began providing coverage for Tri-County Grove, LLC, a subsidiary
      of Atlantic Blue Trust, Inc., the holder of approximately 47.4% of the Company s
      common stock when the policy was issued. The coverage term was from August
      2004
      to July 2005. Total coverage under the policy was $2.7 million and the premium
      charged was $45 thousand during the coverage term.   

Premiums
      for coverages quoted are set by independent actuaries/underwriters hired by
      Agri
      in Bermuda based on underwriting considerations established by them. Premiums
      vary depending upon the size of the property, its age and revenue-producing
      history as well as the proximity of the insured property to known disease-prone
      areas or other insured hazards. 

The
      Company purchased fertilizer and other miscellaneous supplies, services, and
      operating equipment from Griffin, on a competitive bid basis, for use in its
      cattle, sugarcane, sod and citrus operations. Such purchases totaled $3.3
      million, $4.2 million and $5.3 million during the years ended August 31, 2006,
      2005 and 2004, respectively. 

During
      fiscal year 2006, Atlantic Blue Group, Inc. (formerly Atlantic Blue Trust,
      Inc.)
      (ABG) increased its holdings to approximately 50.5% of the Company s common
      stock. By virtue of their ownership percentage, ABG is able to elect all the
      directors and, consequently, to control the Company. ABG has issued a letter
      dated September 29, 2006 reaffirming its commitment to maintaining a majority
      of
      independent directors on Alico s board. 

65 

(11)
        Reportable Segment Information  

The
        Company has four reportable segments: Bowen, Citrus Groves, Sugarcane and
        Cattle. Bowen provides harvesting and marketing services for citrus producers
        including Alico s Citrus Grove division. Additionally, Bowen purchases citrus
        fruit and resells the fruit to citrus processors and fresh packing facilities.
        The Citrus Groves segment produces citrus fruit for sale to citrus processors
        and fresh packing facilities. The Sugarcane segment produces sugarcane for
        delivery to the sugar mill and refinery. The Cattle division raises beef
        cattle
        for sale to western feedlots and meat packing facilities. The goods and services
        produced by these segments are sold to wholesalers and processors in the
        United
        States who prepare the products for consumption. The Company's operations
        are
        located in Florida.  

Although
        the Company s Plant World, Vegetable and Sod segments do not meet the
        quantitative thresholds to be considered as reportable segments, information
        about these segments may be useful and has been included in the schedules
        below.
        For a description of the business activities of the Plant World, Vegetables
        and
        Sod segments please refer to Item 1 of this report. 

The
        accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
        summary of significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates performance
        based on profit or loss from operations before income taxes not including
        nonrecurring gains and losses.  

The
        Company accounts for intersegment sales and transfers as if the sales or
        transfers were to third parties, that is, at current market prices.

The
        Company s reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different
        products. They are managed separately because each business requires different
        knowledge, skills and marketing strategies.  

Information
        concerning the various segments of the Company for the years ended August
        31,
        2006, 2005 and 2004 is summarized as follows: 

66 

67 

68 

(12)
      Casualty (Recoveries) Losses  

Hurricane
      Wilma caused extensive damage to the Company s crops and infrastructure in
      Collier and Hendry Counties during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. Also,
      canker was confirmed in several groves in 2006 and 2005. Additionally, during
      August and September 2004, a series of three hurricanes struck a portion of
      the
      Company s citrus groves in Polk County, Florida. 

Citrus
      canker is a highly contagious bacterial disease of citrus that causes premature
      leaf and fruit drop. Citrus canker causes no threat to humans, animals or plant
      life other than citrus. Prior to January 10, 2006, Florida law required infected
      and exposed trees within 1,900 feet of the canker find to be removed and
      destroyed.        The
      Company s traditional policy has been to recognize a loss estimate for the total
      destruction of all trees within 1,900 feet of the canker find as soon as canker
      was confirmed. This estimate of loss damage preceded the actual destruction
      of
      the trees. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the USDA determined
      that due to the potential spread of canker from hurricanes they did not believe
      that canker eradication was feasible. Due to this determination, the rule
      requiring the destruction of citrus groves testing positive for canker was
      suspended. Upon suspension of the rule requiring the destruction of citrus
      groves, those portions of grove that were previously estimated as lost but
      had
      not yet been destroyed were reestablished, reducing the casualty loss accrued.

The
      Company recognized (recoveries) and losses resulting from the hurricanes and
      canker as follows: 

(13)
      Treasury Stock  

The
      following table provides information relating to purchases of the Company s
      common shares by the Company on the open market pursuant to the Director
      Compensation Plan approved by the Company s shareholders on June 10, 2005 for
      fiscal 2006: 

(1)
      The
      Company may purchase an additional 15,000 shares pursuant to the approved
      Director Compensation Plan. 

69 

(14)
      Off Balance Sheet Arrangements  

The
      Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Bowen Brothers Fruit, LLC enters
      into purchase contracts for the purchase of citrus products during the normal
      course of its business. Typically, these purchases are covered by sales
      contracts. The total purchase contracts under these agreements totaled $7.4
      million at August 31, 2006. All of these purchases were covered by sales
      agreements. None of these agreements were in a net loss position as of August
      31, 2006. All of these contracts will be fulfilled by the end of the fiscal
      year
      2007. Additionally, the Company hedges its fuel requirements through the
      purchase of fuel stocks at fixed prices for future deliveries. The net
      obligations under these arrangement totaled $192 thousand at August 31, 2006.
      Deliveries under these contracts will occur before October 31,
      2006. 

(15)
      New Accounting Pronouncements  

In
      June
      2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation Number 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for
      Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  The
      interpretation contains a two step approach to recognizing and measuring
      uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The
      first
      step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the
      weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the
      position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals
      or
      litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit
      as
      the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
      settlement. The Company is required to adopt FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal
      year 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact this statement will have on
      its
      consolidated financial statements. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS
      No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value
      in
      generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair
      value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements
      that require or permit fair value measurements. The Company is required to
      adopt
      SFAS No. 157 effective at the beginning of fiscal year 2009. The Company is
      evaluating the impact this statement will have on its consolidated financial
      statements. 

In
      September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an
      amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires
      an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined
      benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset or
      liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in
      that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive
      income. SFAS No. 158 also requires an employer to measure the funded status
      of a
      plan as of the date of its year-end statement of financial position, with
      limited exceptions. SFAS No. 158 will be effective for the Company s fiscal year
      2007. The Company is evaluating the impact this statement will have on its
      consolidated financial statements. 

(16)
      Subsequent events  

At
      a
      Board of Directors meeting held on September 28, 2006, the Board declared a
      quarterly dividend of $0.275 per share payable to stockholders of record as
      of
      December 29, 2006, with payment expected on or about January 15,
      2007. 

70 

17)
      Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

71 

Item
      9.          Changes
      in   Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure.  

Information
      called for by Item 9 and required by Item 304(a) of Regulation S-K is
      incorporated by reference to reports filed on Form 8-K June 8, 2004 and amended
      June 16, 2004. 

There
      were no disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure
      matters. 

Item
      9A. Controls and Procedures  

Attached
      as exhibits to this Form 10-K are certifications of our Chief Executive Officer
      and Chief Financial Officer, which are required in accordance with Rule 13a-14
      of the Securities Exchange Act. This "Controls and Procedures" section includes
      information concerning the controls and controls evaluation referred to in
      the
      certifications. 

Evaluation
        of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

The
        Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in   
        Rules
        13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
        referenced herein as the Exchange Act. These disclosure controls and procedures
        are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
        in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded,
        processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
        the
        SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated
        to Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief
        Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
        disclosure. The Company carried out, under the supervision and with the
        participation of the Company's management, including the Company's Chief
        Executive Officer and the Company's Chief Financial Officer, an evaluation
        of
        the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's disclosure
        controls and procedures performed pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Securities
        Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005,
        the
        Company s Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer
        determined that that a material weakness existed by reason of inadequate
        staffing in the Company s accounting department. The Company took various steps
        to correct this weakness during the 2006 fiscal year but based on their
        evaluation at the end of 2006, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and
        its
        Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of August 31, 2006, the Company's
        disclosure controls and procedures continued to be not
        effective.  

Material
        Weakness Related to Tax Accounting  

Management
        assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
        reporting as of August 31, 2006. In making the assessment, Management used
        the
        criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
        Commission ("COSO") in Internal Control - Integrated Framework. Based on
        this
        assessment, the Management of Alico, Inc. concluded that a material
        weakness   
        continued to exist in the Company's internal control over financial reporting
        as
        of August 31, 2006 as a result of a significant deficiency discovered in
        connection with the preparation of the year end financial statements. Although
        the amount of the adjustments made to the Company s accounts would ordinarily
        have resulted in a significant deficiency the Company concluded that a material
        weakness continues to exist in the internal controls over financial reporting,
        because the remedial actions taken during fiscal 2006 were not effective
        at
        August 31, 2006 to prevent the significant deficiency, which in this context
        amounted to a material weakness. A material weakness is a control deficiency,
        or
        combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote
        likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
        statements will not be prevented or detected.   

Although
        improvements were made to the internal controls over financial reporting
        during
        fiscal 2006, a significant deficiency existed in the following
        area: 

72 

Adjustments
        to the Company s income tax provision and deferred taxes were identified by the
        Company s auditors based on the results of the annual financial statement audit
        for the fiscal year 2006. The adjustments resulted from a deficiency in the
        operation of internal controls around the deferred tax roll forward,
        specifically related to the contribution carry-forward, property, plant and
        equipment, and the income tax provision calculation. 

The
        entries to correct and properly reflect the income tax balances were made
        and
        incorporated into the fiscal 2006 year end financial statements and Management
        does not believe that there are any misstatements in the financial statements.

Although
        the Company does not believe that the significant deficiency identified impacted
        any previously filed financial statements, the Chief Executive Officer and
        the
        Chief Financial Officer believe that the existence of the deficiency or
        deficiencies of the magnitude reported following the determination that a
        material weakness existed in the previous year means that the material weakness
        identified in 2005 is continuing and is an indication that there continues
        to be
        more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company's
        financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a future
        period. 

In
        conducting Alico s evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over
        financial reporting, Alico   excluded  
        the
  acquisition  
        of Bowen
        Brothers, which was completed by Alico during fiscal 2006. Bowen Brothers
        represented approximately 1% of Alico s total assets as of August 31, 2006 and
        approximately 33%, of Alico s total revenues for the year then ended. Companies
        are allowed to   exclude
          acquisitions  
        from
        their assessment of internal control over financial reporting during the
        first
        year of an   acquisition  
        while
        integrating the acquired company under guidelines established by the Securities
        and Exchange Commission. 

Remediation
        of Prior Year s Material Weakness   

Subsequent
        to the year ended August 31, 2005, the Company added a qualified and experienced
        financial reporting manager in the Accounting Department to improve the depth,
        skills, and experience within the department to prepare its financial statements
        and disclosures in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
        In
        addition, management improved the documentation of and training on accounting
        policies and procedures to further improve internal controls over financial
        reporting. These changes however, were not sufficient to prevent the occurrence
        of the deficiency noted above and indicate that the material weakness is
        continuing. Subsequent to August 31, 2006, Management will continue to evaluate
        the depth, progress and abilities of accounting personnel in order to address
        the material weaknesses in its accounting staff. Management also intends
        to hire
        additional accounting personnel to provide more support in this department.
        Management is committed to correcting this material weakness.  

Management's
          Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

Management
          is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
          over
          financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined
          in
          Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act as a process
          designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company's principal executive
          and
          principal financial officers and implemented by the Company's board of
          directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance
          regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
          financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
          accepted
          accounting principles and includes those polices and procedures
          that: 

Pertain
          to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately   
          and
          fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
          company;   

Provide
          reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary   
          to
          permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with Generally
          Accepted
          Accounting Principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
          are
          being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
          of
          the company; and   

73 

Provide
        reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of   
        unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that
        could
        have a material effect on the financial statements.   

As
        a
        result of the continuation of the material weakness described above, we have
        concluded    that
        as
        of August 31, 2006, the Company did not maintain effective internal control
        over
        financial reporting.  

Management's
        assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
        as
        of August 31, 2006 has been audited by Tedder, James, Worden   Associates,
        P.A., an independent registered certified public accounting firm, as stated
        in
        their report which is included below in Item 9A of this Form
        10-K. 

74 

Report
        of Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting
        Firm   

To
        the
        Stockholders and Board of Directors of 

          Alico,
        Inc. and Subsidiaries    

We
        have
        audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management's
        Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Alico, Inc.
        and
        Subsidiaries did not maintain effective internal control over financial
        reporting as of August 31, 2006, because of the effect of lack of a sufficient
        number of qualified financial reporting personnel with sufficient depth,
        skills,
        and experience to apply generally accepted accounting principles to the
        Company's transactions and to prepare financial statements that comply with
        accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America,
        based
        on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued
        by the
        Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
        Alico,
        Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
        over
        financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
        control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
        on
        management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's
        internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We
        conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
        Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
        we plan
        and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
        internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
        respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
        over
        financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating
        the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
        such
        other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
        that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

A
        company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
        to
        proved reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
        and
        the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
        with
        generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
        financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
        to
        the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
        reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
        provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
        to
        permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
        accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
        are
        being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
        of
        the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
        timely
        detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
        assets that could have a material effect on the financial
        statements. 

Because
        of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
        not
        prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
        effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
        become
        inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
        with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

75 

A
        material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control
        deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
        misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented
        or detected. The following material weakness has been identified and included
        in
        management's assessment. The material weakness resulted from a lack of a
        sufficient number of qualified financial reporting personnel with sufficient
        depth, skills, and experience to apply generally accepted accounting principles
        to the Company's transactions and to prepare financial statements that comply
        with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
        Specifically, internal controls around the deferred tax roll forward did
        not
        operate effectively, resulting in adjustments to the Company s income tax
        provision and deferred taxes that were not detected by the Company s accounting
        staff. This material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing,
        and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the 2006 financial statements,
        and this report does not affect our report dated November 17, 2006 on the
        financial statements. 

In
        our
        opinion, management's assessment that Alico, Inc. and Subsidiaries did not
        maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of August
        31,
        2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established
        in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
        Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, because
        of the effect of the material weakness described above on the achievement
        of the
        objectives of the control criteria, Alico, Inc. and Subsidiaries has not
        maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of August
        31,
        2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
        issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
        (COSO).  

We
        also
        have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
        Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Alico,
        Inc.
        and Subsidiaries as of August 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
        statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income (loss),
        and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 31,
        2006,
        and our report dated November 17, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion
        thereon. 

/s/TEDDER,
        JAMES, WORDEN   ASSOCIATES, P.A.  

Orlando,
        Florida 

        November
        17, 2006 

Item
      9B. Other Information.  

None. 

76 

PART
      III   

Items
      10
      - 14 of Part three are incorporated by reference to the Company s proxy expected
      to be filed on or before December 31, 2006. 

PART
      IV   

Item
      15.          Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.  

(a)
      1. Financial Statements:   

Included
      in Part II, Item 8 of this Report 

Reports
      of Registered Independent Certified Public Accounting Firm 

      August
      31, 2006, 2005   2004 

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets - August 31, 2006 and 2005 

Consolidated
      Statements of Operations - For the Years Ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and
      2004 

Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income (loss) - For the
      Years Ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows - For the Years Ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and
      2004 

(b)
      2. Financial Statement Schedules:  

Selected
      Quarterly Financial Data - For the Years Ended August 31, 2006 and 2005 -
      Included in Part II, Item 8 

All
      other
      schedules not listed above are not submitted because they are not applicable
      or
      not required or because the required information is included in the financial
      statements or notes thereto.  

77 

(c)
        3. Exhibits:   

3(i)
        Articles of Incorporation:     

        3(i)1
        Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Dated February 17, 1972 (incorporated
        by
        reference to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1 dated February 24,
        1972, Registration No. 2-43156). 

-3(i)2
        Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, Dated January 14,
        1974
        (incorporated by reference to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8,
        dated December 21, 2005, Registration No. 333-130575) 

3(i)3
        Amendment to Articles of Incorporation, Dated January 14, 1987 (incorporated
        by
        reference to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8, dated December
        21, 2005, Registration No. 333-130575) 

3(i)4
        Amendment to Articles of Incorporation, Dated December 27, 1988 (incorporated
        by
        reference to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8, dated December
        21, 2005, Registration No. 333-130575) 

3(ii)
        Bylaws 

3(ii)(1)
        By-Laws of Alico, Inc., Amended to March 31, 2006  

(10)
        Material Contracts - Citrus Processing and Marketing Agreement with Ben Hill
        Griffin, Inc., dated November 2, 1983, a Continuing Contract.  

(11)
        Statement - Computation of Weighted Average Shares Outstanding and Per Share
        Earnings. 

(12)
        Statement - Computation of Ratios 

(14.1)
        Code of Ethics 

(14.2)
        Whistleblower Policy 

(21)
        Subsidiaries of the Registrant - Saddlebag Lake Resorts, Inc. (a Florida
        corporation incorporated in 1971);Agri-Insurance Company, Ltd. (a company
        formed
        under the laws of the country of Bermuda incorporated in 2000), Alico-Agri,
        Ltd
        (a Florida limited partnership formed in 2003), Alico Plant World, LLC (a
        Florida limited liability company organized in 2004), Bowen Brothers Fruit,
        LLC
        (a Florida limited liability company organized in 2005). 

(31.1)
        Rule 13a-14(a) certification 

(31.2)
        Rule 13a-14(a) certification 

(32.1)
        Section 1350 certification 

(32.2)
        Section 1350 certification 

78 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
      amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

ALICO,
      INC. 

      (Registrant) 

November 28,
                2006 

John
                R. Alexander 

Date 

Chairman
                    Chief
                Executive Officer 

/s/
                John R. Alexander 

November
                28, 2006 

Patrick
                W. Murphy 

Date 

Senior
                Vice President    Chief
                Financial Officer  

/s/
                Patrick W. Murphy 

79 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
      capacities and on the date indicated: 

John
      R.
      Alexander                                                                        
Robert E. Lee Caswell 

      Chairman                                                                                        
      Director 

/s/
      John
      R.
      Alexander                                                                  
/s/ Robert E. Lee Caswell 

Evelyn
      D An                                                                                 
Phillip Dingle        

      Director                                                                                          
      Director 

/s/
      Evelyn
      D An                                                                            
/s/ Phillip Dingle 

Gregory
      Mutz                                                                                
Charles Palmer 

      Director                                                                                          
      Director 

/s/
      Gregory
      Mutz                                                                          
/s/ Charles Palmer  

Baxter
      G.
      Troutman                                                                      
Gordon Walker 

      Director                                                                                          
      Director 

/s/
      Baxter G.
      Troutman                                                                
/s/ Gordon Walker 

Robert
      J.
      Viguet 

      Director 

/s/
      Robert J. Viguet 

November
      28, 2006 

      Date 

<EX-14.1>
 2
 codeofethics.htm
 CODE OF ETHICS

Code of Ethics

Exhibit
        14.1   

          Adopted
        and Effective May 3, 2005        

Amended
        and Restated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics of Alico, Inc.

Preamble

Alico,
        Inc. ( Alico  or the  Company ) has always insisted that its employees, officers
        and directors maintain the highest level of integrity in their dealings with
        each other and with the public on behalf of the Company. This Code of Business
        Conduct and Ethics (the  Code ) is intended to document some of the specific
        principles of conduct and ethics which will be followed by Alico s directors,
        officers and employees in the performance of their responsibilities with
        respect
        to the Company s business. The purpose of the Code is to:  

Promote
                  honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual
                  or
                  apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional
                  relationships;  

Promote
                  full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure to the
                  public,
                  including Alico s periodic reports required to be filed with the
                  Securities Exchange Commission;  

Promote
                  compliance with applicable governmental rules and regulations;

Provide
                  guidance to directors, officers and employees to help them recognize
                  and
                  deal with ethical issues;  

Provide
                  a mechanism to report questionable, dishonest or unethical conduct;

Help
                  foster a culture of honesty, civility and accountability.

Alico s
        directors have committed that they will comply at all times with the principles
        set forth in this Code and they expect each of Alico s officers and employees to
        do likewise. A violation is grounds for disciplinary action up to and including
        discharge and possible legal prosecution.  

Article
        I. Ethical Conduct    

A. 

Each
                  director, officer and employee of the Company will at all times
                  deal
                  fairly with Alico s customers, suppliers, partners, stockholders and
                  employees, and will conduct business activities and operations
                  in an
                  ethical manner and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules,
                  regulations and Company policies and with the standards set forth
                  in this
                  Code.  

B. 

Each
                  director, officer and employee will:

i. 

Avoid
                  all conflicts of interest between his/her personal and professional
                  relationships; provided, however, that if any person or entity
                  suggests
                  some activity, transaction, relationship, or that such person or
                  entity
                  enter into a business situation that places or appears to place
                  any
                  director, officer or employee in a conflict of interest situation,
                  such
                  conflict or potential conflict must be immediately and fully disclosed
                  to
                  the Company s Board of Directors and/or the Company s Audit Committee
                  prior to any commitment by the Company with respect thereto and
                  the
                  conflict should be dealt with in accordance with our Board s procedures
                  for handling disclosed potential conflicts as set forth in Article
                  III
                  below; 

ii. 

Provide,
                  or cause to be provided, full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable
                  disclosure in reports and documents that the Company files with,
                  or
                  submits to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and in other
                  public communications made by the Company;

iii. 

Comply,
                  and take reasonable actions to encourage others within the Company
                  to
                  comply, with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations;

iv. 

Promptly
                  report violations of this Code as required and specified in the
                  Reporting
                  Procedures developed by Alico s Audit Committee (see Exhibit A,
                  Whistleblower Policy, attached to this document); and

v. 

Promote
                  accountability and adherence pursuant to this Code.

C. 

Company
                  records must at all times be prepared accurately and maintained
                  properly,
                  in accordance with Alico records management policies as well as
                  all
                  applicable laws, rules and regulations. No false, misleading, artificial
                  or deceptive entries may be made in the Company s records for any reason.
                  The simple rule of thumb is that the Company s books must accurately,
                  fully and fairly reflect the transactions and activities that have
                  occurred.  

D. 

The
                  Company records belong to the Company. Therefore, the Company records
                  should not be removed from the Company property except for a legitimate
                  business reason, and any documents so removed should be returned
                  to the
                  Company as soon as is practical. Accounting procedures, processes
                  and
                  controls are prescribed by Company policies. Within these policies,
                  the
                  senior officers of Alico have the primary responsibility for establishing
                  and monitoring adequate systems of internal accounting and controls
                  in
                  accordance with sound accounting principles. All employees must
                  adhere to
                  these controls. The Company s auditors will be asked from time to time to
                  monitor and report upon these internal controls. Alico employees
                  are
                  required to cooperate completely, fully and forthrightly with the
                  Company s internal auditors and accountants, external independent
                  auditors, and with Alico s Audit Committee. No employee, officer or
                  director may engage in, permit, or conceal any financial or bookkeeping
                  irregularity, deceptive act or attempt to mislead.

Article
        II. Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations    

A. 

Alico s
                  employees must comply, at all times and in all material respects,
                  with all
                  applicable laws, rules and regulations.

B. 

Alico s
                  directors, officers and employees who are in possession of material,
                  non-public information must refrain from (i) buying or selling
                  securities,
                  either personally or on behalf of others on the basis of such information,
                  (ii) using such information for personal gain and (iii) disclosing
                  such
                  information to anyone outside the Company who does not require
                  such
                  information for business purposes in the performance of their services
                  to
                  the Company. Material, non-public information is factual information
                  that
                  a reasonable investor would want to know before making an investment
                  decision to buy or sell the Company s securities and that has not been
                  disclosed to the public.  

Article
        III. Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest and Board Procedures for Resolution
        of

the
        same.    

A. 

Directors,
                  officers and employees have a primary business responsibility to
                  the
                  Company and must take all reasonable actions necessary to avoid
                  conflicts
                  of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest. A conflict
                  of
                  interest occurs when an individual s private interest is detrimental or
                  adverse to the interests of the Company as a whole. Examples of
                  situations
                  involving a conflict of interest include but are not limited to:
                  (i)
                  conducting business with a firm owned, partially owned or controlled
                  by a
                  director, officer, or employee or a relative of such person; (ii)
                  owning a
                  financial interest in Alico s vendors, customers, or competitors
                  (ownership of less than 1% of the stock of a publicly traded company
                  that
                  competes or does business with Alico is permissible); (iii) performing
                  work, with or without compensation, for a competitor, governmental
                  or
                  regulatory entity, customer or supplier of Alico, or doing any
                  work for a
                  third party that may adversely affect your performance or judgment
                  on the
                  job or diminish your ability to devote the necessary time and attention
                  to
                  Company-related duties; (iv) using Company property, materials,
                  supplies
                  funds or other resources for personal purposes. These situations
                  and
                  others like them, where loyalties to Alico could be compromised,
                  must be
                  avoided. If you believe that you are involved in a potential conflict
                  of
                  interest, you must discuss it with your supervisor and report it
                  to our
                  chief legal officer, to the Board of Directors or to the Audit
                  Committee
                  of the Board.  

B. 

The
                  chief legal officer and/or the chief financial officer shall file
                  a report
                  with Alico s Board of Directors of any reported conflicts or potential
                  conflicts, including a statement as to the resolution if any of
                  such
                  conflict. Conflicts that are unresolved or that otherwise need
                  to be
                  considered by the Board shall be placed on the agenda for the next
                  Board
                  meeting. If the potential conflict involves a member of Alico s Board of
                  Directors, such member shall abstain from participating in the
                  resolution
                  of such conflict by the Board or by any special committee to which
                  the
                  Board may refer such matter. Disclosed conflicts of interest or
                  potential
                  conflicts of interest will not be considered to violate our conflicts
                  policy if and only if Alico s Board less any member who may have a
                  conflict of interest with regard to the matter under consideration
                  or a
                  special independent committee of Alico s Board to whom review of such
                  conflict has been referred, has determined that the activity which
                  gives
                  rise to the disclosed conflict of interest or potential conflict of
                  interest is none-the-less in the best interest of the Company and
                  is fair
                  to the Company and its stockholders.

Article
        IV. Corporate Opportunities    

No
        director, officer or employee shall: (i) take for himself or herself personally
        any opportunity which he or she becomes aware of through the use of Company
        property, information or position when such opportunity could be of benefit
        or
        interest to the Company, unless the Company has expressly decided not to
        attempt
        to take such opportunity; (ii) make it possible for others to take any
        opportunity which he or she becomes aware of through the use of Company
        property, information or position when such opportunity could be of benefit
        or
        interest to the Company, unless the Company has expressly decided not to
        attempt
        to take such opportunity; (iii) use Company property, information or position
        for personal gain; or (iv) compete with the Company in any material or
        substantive manner.  

Article
        V. Confidentiality    

Directors,
        officers and employees must maintain inviolable confidentiality of all
        information entrusted to them by the Company, unless disclosure is authorized
        by
        the Company or legally required. Confidential information includes all
        information relating to the Company that may be of use to the Company s
        competitors and that is not otherwise public information or information that
        has
        been entrusted to the Company by its customers, vendors or others that have
        a
        relationship with the Company. Directors, officers and employees shall comply
        with all confidentiality policies adopted by the Company from time to time,
        and
        with confidentiality provisions contained in agreements to which they or
        the
        Company is a party.  

Article
        VI. Company Assets    

Directors,
        officers and employees shall take reasonable steps to protect the Company s
        assets and ensure their efficient use. Directors, officers and employees
        shall
        use the Company s assets only for the Company s legitimate business purposes.

Article
        VII. Reporting Violations    

A. 

The
                  Audit Committee of Alico s Board of Directors has established several
                  alternatives and options for any director, officer and employee
                  seeking
                  compliance advice or wanting to report any misconduct or violations
                  of
                  this Code. You can contact your supervisor; Alico s chief legal officer or
                  chief financial officer; Alico s Lead Director, Gregory T. Mutz, 125 South
                  Wacker Drive, Suite 3100, Chicago, Illinois 60606; Alico s outside legal
                  counsel, David C. Shobe, Esq., Fowler White Boggs Banker P.A.,
                  501 East
                  Kennedy Blvd., Suite 1700, Tampa, Florida 33602; or you can place
                  a report
                  to our specially designated Compliance Reporting Post Office Box
                  339,
                  LaBelle, Florida, on an identified or anonymous basis or call Alico s
                  Compliance Hotline at 877-778-5463 which is staffed by independent
                  third
                  parties. The procedures for handling compliance reports and questions
                  as
                  adopted by the Audit Committee from time to time are attached to
                  this Code
                  as Exhibit A.  

B. 

Anyone
                  who seeks advice, raises a concern or reports misconduct or a violation
                  of
                  this Code is following the requirements of this Code and the desires
                  of
                  Alico s Board of Directors. We encourage such action. Call Alico s
                  Compliance Hotline if you suspect or have reason to believe there
                  is a
                  problem. Retaliation against anyone who makes a good faith report
                  of
                  misconduct is illegal and will not be tolerated. We will take appropriate
                  disciplinary action, including severance from the Company, against
                  any
                  individual or individuals who engage in improper retaliatory conduct.

Article
        VIII. Amendment to, or Waiver of, this Code    

A. 

Any
                  amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of this Code with regard
                  to any
                  director, officer or employee must be approved by the Board. In
                  the event
                  that members of the Board will be personally affected by a waiver
                  of this
                  Code, such waiver shall be approved by a committee consisting entirely
                  of
                  members of the Board who will not be personally affected by such
                  waiver.

B. 

No
                  amendment to, or waiver of, this Code will be effective until the
                  waiver
                  has been reported to the person responsible for the preparation
                  and filing
                  of the Company s current reports on Form 8-K, in sufficient detail to
                  enable such person to disclose accurately such amendment or waiver
                  in the
                  current report on Form 8-K if necessary. The Company shall promptly
                  disclose on Form 8-K, by filing such form with the SEC, any amendment
                  to,
                  or waiver of, this Code that applies to the Company s directors or
                  executive officers.  

THE
        INFORMATION PROVIDED AND PROCEDURES SET FORTH IN THIS PUBLICATION DO NOT
        CONFER
        CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS OF ANY KIND UPON ANY EMPLOYEE OR THIRD PARTY OR CREATE
        CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS OF ANY KIND FOR ALICO, INC.   

</EX-14.1>

<EX-14.2>
 3
 whistleblowerpolicy.htm
 WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY

Whistleblower Policy

Exhibit
      14.2   

        Adopted
      and Effective May 3,2005      

(Exhibit
      A to Amended and Restated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics)

Amended
      and Restated Whistleblower Policy    

Procedures
      for the Submission of Complaints or Concerns   

       Regarding
      Financial Statement or other Disclosures, Accounting,   

       Internal
      Accounting or Disclosure Controls, Auditing Matters or Violations

of
      the Alico, Inc., Code of Business Ethics and Conduct   

Section
      301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires the Audit Committee of the Board of
      Directors of Alico, Inc. (the  Company ) to establish procedures for: (a) the
      receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints received by the Company
      regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters; and
      (b)
      the submission by employees of the Company and others, on a confidential and
      anonymous basis, of good faith concerns regarding questionable accounting or
      auditing matters.  

      In
      accordance with Section 301, the Audit Committee has adopted the following
      procedures:  

1.
      The
      Company shall promptly forward to the Audit Committee any complaints that it
      has
      received regarding financial statement disclosures, accounting, internal
      accounting or disclosure controls or auditing matters, disclosure violations
      or
      violations of its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  

2.
      Any
      employee of the Company may submit, on a confidential, anonymous basis if the
      employee so desires, any good faith concerns regarding financial statement
      or
      other disclosure, accounting, internal accounting or disclosure controls,
      auditing matters or violations of the Company s Code of Business Conduct and
      Ethics. All such concerns shall be set forth in writing and forwarded in a
      sealed envelope to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in care of the Board s
      Lead Director, Gregory T. Mutz, in an envelope labeled with a legend such as:
       To be opened by the Audit Committee only. Being submitted pursuant to the
      Whistleblower Policy adopted by the Audit Committee.  If an employee would like
      to discuss any matter with the Audit Committee, the employee should indicate
      this in the submission and include a telephone number at which he or she might
      be contacted if the Audit Committee deems it appropriate. Any such envelopes
      received by the Company s Lead Director shall be forwarded promptly and unopened
      to the chairman of the Audit Committee. If the employee would prefer an
      alternative method of contact, the employee may contact our  Employee
      Whistleblower Hotline  using the contact information set forth below or may mail
      a complaint as indicated above to our Employer Whistleblower post office box
      using the address listed below.  

3.
      Following the receipt of any complaint submitted hereunder, the Audit Committee
      will investigate each such matter so reported and take corrective and
      disciplinary actions, if appropriate, which may include, alone or in
      combination, a warning or letter of reprimand, demotion, loss of merit increase,
      bonus or stock options, suspension without pay or termination of employment.

4.
      The
      Audit Committee may enlist committee members, Board members, employees of the
      Company and/or outside legal, accounting or other advisors, as appropriate,
      to
      conduct any investigation of complaints regarding financial statement
      disclosures, disclosure concerns or violations, accounting, internal accounting
      controls, auditing matters or violations of the Company s Code of Business
      Conduct and Ethics. In conducting any investigation, the Audit Committee shall
      use reasonable efforts to protect the confidentiality and anonymity of the
      complainant.  

5.
      The
      Company does not permit retaliation of any kind against employees for complaints
      submitted hereunder that are made in good faith. Additionally, no employee
      shall
      be adversely affected because the employee refuses to carry out a directive
      which, in fact, constitutes corporate fraud, or is a violation of state or
      federal law or the Company s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  

6.
      The
      Audit Committee shall retain as a part of the records of the Audit Committee
      any
      such complaints or concerns for a period of no less than seven (7) years.

7.
      Problems or concerns related to financial statement or other disclosures,
      accounting, internal or disclosure controls, auditing matters or questions,
      disclosure violations or violations of the Company s Code of Business Conduct
      and Ethics which an employee wishes to discuss or report on a non-confidential
      or non-anonymous basis should be reported immediately to the Company s Lead
      Director using the contact information specified below or if the employee is
      uncomfortable reporting to such person, the Company s outside legal counsel
      using the contact information specified below.  

The
      Lead
      Director or outside counsel, as the case may be, shall keep a written record
      of
      all such reports or inquiries and make monthly reports of the same to the
      Chairman of the Audit Committee in any month in which an inquiry or complaint
      is
      received by them. If the contact is in the nature of an alleged violation of
      the
      Company s Code of Conduct and Ethics or an impropriety with regard to the
      Company s financial statements or other disclosures, accounting, internal or
      disclosure controls, or auditing matters, the allegation shall immediately
      be
      relayed by the Lead Director or the Company s outside legal counsel to the
      Chairman of the Audit Committee, who shall immediately notify the complainant
      that the complaint has been received and begin the procedures outlined above.

Contact
      Information:  

       Lead
      Director     

      Gregory
      T. Mutz  

      125
      South
      Wacker Drive. Suite 3100  

      Chicago,
      Illinois 60606  

      312-984-2600

Outside
        Legal Counsel     

David
      C.
      Shobe, Esq.  

      Fowler
      White Boggs Banker P.A.  

      501
      East
      Kennedy Blvd.  

      Suite
      1700  

      Tampa,
      FL
      33602  

      Phone
      813-222-1123  

Whistleblower
      Hotline or Website     

      877-778-5463
      or    www.reportit.net     

Whistleblower
      Mailing Address     

      P
      O Box
      339  

      La
      Belle,
      FL 33975  

</EX-14.2>

<EX-11>
 4
 computationofearnings.htm
 COMPUTATION OF WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING AND PER SHARE EARNINGS

Computation of Weighted Average Shares Outstanding and Per Share Earnings

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 5
 computatioofratios.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Computation of Ratios

</EX-12>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 rule13a14acertificationceo.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION- CEO

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification- CEO

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF   

THE
      SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, John
      R. Alexander, Chief Executive Officer of Alico, Inc., certify that:

1. 

I
                have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Alico, Inc.;

2. 

Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report;  

3. 

Based
                on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
                included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
                the
                financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
                registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. 

The
                registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
                establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
                defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
                control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
                13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have:

a) 

Designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under supervision, to ensure
                that
                material information relating to the registrant, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared;  

b) 

Designed
                such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
                control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
                to
                provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
                reporting and the preparations of financial statements for external
                purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;

c) 

Evaluated
                the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
                and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of
                the disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
                covered
                this report based on such evaluation; and

d) 

Disclosed
                in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
                financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
                fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
                to
                materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
                reporting; and  

5. 

The
                registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
                most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
                to
                the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
                directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 

All
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
                process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) 

Any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
                over financial reporting.  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 rule13a-14acertificationcfo.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION CFO

Rule 13a-14(a) certification CFO

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF   

THE
      SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I,
      Patrick W. Murphy, Chief Financial Officer of Alico, Inc., certify that:

1. 

I
                have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Alico, Inc.;

2. 

Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report;  

3. 

Based
                on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
                included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
                the
                financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
                registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. 

The
                registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
                establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
                defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
                control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
                13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have:

a) 

Designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under supervision, to ensure
                that
                material information relating to the registrant, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared;  

b) 

Designed
                such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
                control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
                to
                provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
                reporting and the preparations of financial statements for external
                purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;

c) 

Evaluated
                the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
                and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of
                the disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
                covered
                this report based on such evaluation; and

d) 

Disclosed
                in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
                financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
                fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
                to
                materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
                reporting; and  

5. 

The
                registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
                most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
                to
                the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
                directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 

All
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
                process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) 

Any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
                over financial reporting.  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 section1350certificationceo.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION CEO

Section 1350 Certification CEO

EXHIBIT
        32.1     

         CERTIFICATION
        OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I,
        John
        R. Alexander certify that;  

1.
        I have
        reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Alico, Inc. (Alico),  

2.
        Based
        on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement
        of a material fact or omit to state a material fact or omit to state a material
        fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
        under
        which such statements were made, and is not misleading with respect to the
        period covered by this report;  

3.
        Based
        on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
        included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
        condition, results of operations and cash flows of Alico as of, and for,
        the
        periods presented in this report;  

4.
        Alico s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
        maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
        Rules
        13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
        defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for Alico and have:

a)
                  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
                  disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
                  to ensure that material information relating to Alico, including
                  its
                  consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
                  those
                  entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                  being
                  prepared;  

b)
        Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
        control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
        provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
        and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
        with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)
        Evaluated the effectiveness of Alico s disclosure controls and procedures and
        presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
        disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
        this
        report based on such evaluation; and  

d)
        Disclosed in this report any change in Alico s internal control over financial
        reporting that occurred during Alico s most recent fiscal quarter
        ended August 31, 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
        to materially affect, Alico s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.
        Alico s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
        evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Alico s auditors and
        audit committee of Alico s Board of Directors:  

a)
                  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
                  or
                  operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                  reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
                  process, summarize and report financial information; and

b)
                  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
                  other
                  employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
                  over financial reporting.  

Dated: November
        28, 2006 

        /S/
        JOHN
        R. ALEXANDER 

        John
        R.
        Alexander 

        Chairman
        and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 section1350certificationcfo.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION CFO

Section 1350 Certification CFO

EXHIBIT
      32.2     

       CERTIFICATION
      OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER  

I,
      Patrick W. Murphy certify that;  

1.
      I have
      reviewed thisannual report on Form 10-K of Alico, Inc. (Alico),  

2.
      Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
      to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
      statements were made, and is not misleading with respect to the period covered
      by this report;  

3.
      Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of Alico as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report;  

4.
      Alico s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for Alico and have:

a)
                Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
                disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
                to ensure that material information relating to Alico, including
                its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared;  

b)
      Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)
      Evaluated the effectiveness of Alico s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and  

d)
      Disclosed in this report any change in Alico s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during Alico s most recent fiscal quarter
      ended August 31, 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
      to materially affect, Alico s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.
      Alico s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
      evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Alico s auditors and
      audit committee of Alico s Board of Directors:  

a)
                All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
                or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
                process, summarize and report financial information; and

b)
      Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting.  

Dated: November
      28, 2006 

      /S/
      PATRICK W. MURPHY  

      Patrick
      W. Murphy 

      Chief
      Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-10>
 10
 materialcontracts.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACT- BEN HILL GRIFFIN, INC.

Material Contract- Ben Hill Griffin, Inc.

BEN
      HILL
      GRIFFIN, INC. 

      CITRUS
      MARKETING CONTRACT 

This
      agreement, made and entered into this    26     th    
      day of
   February   ,
         2004   ,
      by and
      between BEN HILL GRIFFIN, INC. of Frostproof, Florida hereinafter referred
      to as
      GRIFFIN and    Alico,
      Inc.   
      of
   Post
      Office Box 338, La Belle, FL 33975   
      hereinafter referred to as GROWER, wherein GROWER agrees to sell and GRIFFIN
      agrees to buy the following described fruit covering the    2004/2005   
      Fruit
      Season and is written as a continuing contract to cover subsequent fruit seasons
      subject to (1) modifications to meet changing conditions and (2) cancellation
      by
      either party by giving notice to August first preceding the next fruit
      season. 

VARIETY          #
      OF
      BOXES          VARIETY          #
      OF
      BOXES  

      E/M                    Specialty
      Varieties 

      Valencia          

      Colored
      Grapefruit 

LOCATION       Grove
      located in Polk, Hendry and Collier Counties  

UTILIZATION:
      Delivery of this fruit shall be at the discretion of Griffin, and unless
      otherwise provided, GRIFFIN shall direct the flow of above fruit to whatever
      processing facility it is best suited for use as concentrate, sections, or
      fresh
      fruit. The title to all fruit delivered under the terms of this agreement shall
      pass to GRIFFIN at time of delivery. 

SPECIFICATIONS:
      Each load of fruit must meet all applicable laws and regulations and must meet
      GRIFFIN S delivery requirements. Each load of concentrate oranges must have a
      minimum solids content of 10.5 Brix and a minimum ratio of 12.0. 

POOLS: 

CONCENTRATE:
      Five concentrate pools will be operated: Early-Midseason Oranges, Late Oranges,
      White Grapefruit, Colored Grapefruit and Mandarins. Honey Tangerines will be
      pooled with Early-Midseason Oranges. The Mandarin Pool will include Temples,
      Tangerines, Tangelos and all other Mandarin varieties. Fruit not meeting
      GRIFFIN S standard, but nevertheless accepted under emergency conditions, may be
      placed in separate pools. 

SECTIONS:
      Three basic sections pools will be operated: Duncan Grapefruit, White Grapefruit
      and Colored Grapefruit. Fruit not meeting GRIFFIN S standards, but nevertheless
      accepted under emergency conditions, may be placed in separate
      pools. 

FRESH
      FRUIT: A pool will be operated for each regular and late bloom variety.
      Eliminations will be processed as concentrate or sections in accordance with
      the
      utilization paragraph of this agreement. 

CREDITS:
      GROWER S account will be credited with 100% of the amount of net pounds of fruit
      solids or the number of net weight boxes delivered to and accepted by processing
      facilities as determined by the State Inspection Service through its standard
      test. Fresh fruit accounting will be on 1 3/5 bushel standard box
      basis. 

SERVICE
      FEE: For each box of fruit handled a fee not to exceed $.08 per box will be
      assessed to GROWER S account. 

RETURNS:

CONCENTRATE:
      Returns will be based on net revenues received from concentrate returns
      applicable to each pool. 

SECTIONS:
      Returns will be based on net revenues received from sections returns applicable
      to each pool. 

FREASH
      FRUIT: Returns will be based on net sales revenues by variety on a packed 1
      3/5
      bushel box equivalent basis, less GROWER S prorated share of GRIFFIN S audited
      costs regarding all fresh fruit, in addition to a charge shown
      below: 

CITRUS
      TYPE             FRESH
      FRUIT CHARGE  

      Oranges              $.09
      (Per
      packed Carton) 

      Grapefruit              $.09
      (Per
      packed Carton) 

      Temples,
      Tangelos and Tangerine     $.125
      (Per packed Carton) 

MARKETING
      FEES: A Marketing Fee will be charged on fresh fruit at the rate of 1  % of the
      net sales revenue received by GRIFFIN for all fresh fruit sold. 

HARVESTING:
      GRIFFIN will arrange for the picking, hauling and delivery of the fruit covered
      by this contract    OR   
      GROWER
      may exercise the privilege to make his own arrangements for harvesting this
      fruit, subject to approval of GRIFFIN.  

In
      the
      event GRIFFIN is to arrange for harvesting of this fruit, harvesting will begin
      as soon as practical after the fruit meets State and USDA tests and GRIFFIN S
      delivery requirements. 

Harvesting
      cost will be advanced by GRIFFIN and will be charged to GROWER S
      account. 

In
      the
      event GROWER or his agent is to harvest the fruit, arrangements must be made
      with GRIFFIN for the delivery of this fruit after it meets applicable maturity
      standards. GRIFFIN agrees to advance at no interest charge to GROWER, reasonable
      harvesting costs and Growers who deliver their own fruit. 

PAYMENTS
      AND SETTLEMENT: 

CONCENTRATE:
      GRIFFIN will make periodic advances on concentrate pools from time to time
      throughout the year based on realized sales returns for the respective pools,
      and final payment will be made as soon as practicable after January 15 of each
      year. 

SECTIONS:
      GRIFFIN will make periodic advances on sections pools from time to time
      throughout the year based on realized sales returns for the respective pools,
      and final payment will be made as soon as practicable after September 30 of
      each
      year. 

FRESH
      FRUIT: GRIFFIN will make periodic advances on fresh fruit pools from time to
      time throughout the year based on realized sales returns for the respective
      pools, and final payment will be made as soon as practicable after September
      30
      of each year. 

SPECIAL
      ADVANCES: GRIFFIN may make advances greater than those computed for normal
      periodic advances. These special advances shall bear interest at the prevailing
      prime rate charged by Sun Bank, N.A. plus  % per annum. This contract shall not
      terminate until all advances made hereunder and accrued interest have been
      collected by GRIFFIN. In the event of a bonafide sale of grower s property, this
      contract may be canceled at the time the deed of transfer is recorded, provided
      all other conditions are met. 

CERTIFICATION:
      The return paid by GRIFFIN to GROWER for citrus fruit under this agreement
      shall
      be certified by a firm of Credited Public Accountants. 

OWNERSHIP
      WARRANTY: GROWER warranted full right and authority to sell and deliver all
      of
      the fruit sold under this contract, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances
      and restrictions and this shall be a continuing warranty during the life of
      this
      contract. 

LIABILITY
      FOR DEFAULT: Neither party shall be liable for any default in the performance
      of
      its obligations hereunder occasioned by Acts of God, strikes, lockouts,
      embargoes, shortages of equipment, or other conditions beyond its
      control. 

ACCESS:
      GRIFFIN, its agent and employees, shall have full and free rights of ingress
      and
      egress to GROWER S property at any and all times for the purpose of inspecting,
      testing and removing such fruit. 

STATUTORY
      STATEMENT: A Bond or Certified of Deposit posted with the Florida Department
      of
      Agricultural and Consumer Services does not necessarily insure full payment
      of
      claims for any non-performance under this contract. 

FLORIDA
      CITRUS MUTUAL: GRIFFIN is/is not authorized to deduct Florida Citrus Mutual
      assessments from payments to GROWER (Circle one). 

BEST
      EFFORTS: GRIFFIN S own fruit returns are governed by the same factors that
      determine GROWER S fruit returns; accordingly, GRIFFIN hereby guarantees its
      best efforts to minimize costs and maximize sales revenues in order to provide
      maximum returns to GROWER. 

GROWER
      TIN#           

WITNESS:            
  GROWER:   
      ALICO, INC.        

BY:
         /S/:
      John R. Alexander, CEO     

WITNESS:
         /S/:
      Donna Respress         BEN
      HILL
      GRIFFIN, INC. 

BY:
         /S/:
      Ben Hill Giffin, III, CEO  

FIRST
      ADDENDUM to Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. s Citrus Marketing Contract dated
      _   February
      26,    2004,
      between Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. and    Alico,
      Inc.   
      (Grower). 

Where
      this FIRST ADDENDUM may be inconsistent with the printed portion of the Ben
      Hill
      Griffin, Inc. Citrus Marketing Contract, the terms of the FIRST ADDENDUM shall
      prevail. 

This
      Citrus Harvesting and Marketing Agreement shall cover all fruit owned by Alico,
      with the exception of the Early/Mid and Valencia fruit from 2X6 Grove which
      is
      contracted by Alico to Tropicana, and the Alico fruit contracted by Alico to
      Florida Orange Marketers, and shall become effective upon closing of that
      certain Addendum to Settlement Agreement and Plan of Corporate Reorganization
      and Separation of BHG, Inc. and Ben Hill Griffin, Inc., dated December 27,
      2001,
      and shall run for five (5) complete crop seasons (i.e. August 1 thru July 31)
      provided this agreement shall be cancelable by either party with one year prior
      written notice, with the effective date of such notice being August 1 of the
      first crop season which begins on or after the first anniversary of such notice
      with respect to no more than 50% of the fruit commitment for the season in
      which
      the notice is effective and for all subsequent seasons. Thereafter, with
      one-year prior written notice, with the effective date of such notice being
      August 1 of the first crop season which begins on or after the first anniversary
      of such notice, either party may cancel up to the balance of the remaining
      fruit
      commitment for the season in which the notice is effective and for all
      subsequent seasons. 

/S/:
      Ben Hill Griffin                      /S/:
      John R. Alexander  

      Ben
      Hill
      Griffin,
      Inc.                                                                 
Alico, Inc 

Date:
         2/26/04                                                                                 Date:
         2/26/04                 

SECOND
        ADDENDUM to Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. s Citrus Marketing Contract dated
        _______   February
        26   ___,
        2004, between Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. and    Alico,
        Inc.   
        (Grower). 

This
      agreement is to cover that portion of Alico s fruit from the 2X6 Grove that is
      committed to Alico s Tropicana Products, Inc. Agreement, and that portion of
      Alico s fruit that is committed directly to Florida Orange Marketers. The
      agreement is to cover estimating, field services, supervision of harvesting,
      harvesting, roadsiding and hauling of the fruit committed to the two above
      mentions contracts. 

Ben
      Hill
      Griffin, Inc. will schedule the harvesting services based on the delivery
      schedule by Tropicana Products, Inc. and Florida Orange Marketers and will
      bill
      Alico the month following service rendered. 

This
      Citrus Harvesting and Marketing Agreement shall become effective upon closing
      of
      that certain Addendum to Settlement Agreement and Plan of Corporate
      Reorganization and Separation of BHG, Inc. and Ben Hill Griffin, Inc., dated
      December 27, 2001, and shall run for five (5) complete crop seasons (i.e. August
      1 through July 31) provided this agreement shall be cancelable by either party
      with one year prior written notice, with the effective date of such notice
      being
      August 1 of the first crop season which begins on or after the first anniversary
      of such notice with respect to no more than 50% of the fruit commitment for
      the
      season in which the notice is effective and for all subsequent seasons.
      Thereafter, with one-year prior written notice, with the effective date of
      such
      notice being August 1 of the first crop season which begins on or after the
      first anniversary of such notice, either party may cancel up to the balance
      of
      the remaining fruit commitment for the season in which the notice is effective
      and for all subsequent seasons. 

/S/:
      Ben Hill Griffin                      /S/:
      John R. Alexander  

      Ben
      Hill
      Griffin,
      Inc.                                                                  Alico,
      Inc 

Date:
         2/26/04                                                                                
      Date:    2/26/04                 

THIRD
      ADDENDUM to Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. Citrus Marketing Contract dated    February
      26, 2004   ,
      between
      Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. and Alico, Inc. (Grower). 

Where
      the
      THIRD ADDENDUM may be inconsistent with the FIRST and SECOND ADDENDUM or the
      printed portion of the Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. Citrus Marketing Contract, the
      terms of the THIRD ADDENDUM shall prevail. 

For
      the
      2005/2006 citrus harvesting season Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. will be responsible
      for the estimating, supervision of harvesting, harvesting and marketing of
      the
      fruit from the following blocks/groves for Alico, Inc. 

Early/Mid:     Corkscrew,
      West Corkscrew, KT, Bereah, Church, Raulerson 1   2, Patrick, Parson Brown
      30, Pittsburg, Babson Park, Driscoll, Ida, Livingston, Reedy, Lost Grove and
      Saddlebag 

Valencia:     Corkscrew,
      West Corkscrew, KT blocks 15-23, Patrick, Oak Island, Pittsburg, Raulerson
      2,
      Driscoll and Lost Grove 

Fresh
      Fruit 

Navel:           All
      of
      the Curry block, all of the Corkscrew block 

Orlando
      Tangelo:     Babson
      Park block 

Grapefruit:        2X6,
      Corkscrew, Pittsburg and Saddlebag 

Murcott:     KT,
      Corkscrew - with the exception of blocks 10, 11, 12, 13   14, (see attached
      map). 

Alico,
      Inc. will assume responsibility for the Tropicana 2X6 contract and the Alico-FOM
      contract beginning with the 2005/2006 harvest season. 

For
      the
      2006/2007 citrus harvesting season Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. will be responsible
      for the following blocks/groves for Alico, Inc. 

Early/Mid:     Patrick,
      Parson Brown 30, Pittsburg, Babson Park, Driscoll, Ida, Livingston, Reedy,
      Lost
      Grove and Saddlebag 

Valencia:     Patrick,
      Oak Island, Pittsburg, Raulerson 2, Driscoll and Lost grove 

Fresh
      Fruit:    

Navel:           Curry
        Corkscrew 

Orlando
      Tangelo:     Babson
      Park 

Grapefruit:        2X6,
      Corkscrew, Pittsburg   Saddlebag 

Murcott:     KT,
      Corkscrew (with the exception of blocks 10, 11, 12, 13   14) 

The
      2006/2007 season completion will end the Citrus Marketing Contract between
      Ben
      Hill Griffin, Inc. and Alico, Inc. 

/S/:
      Ben Hill Griffin, IV                      /S/:
      John R. Alexander        

      Ben
      Hill
      Griffin, Inc.                    Alico,
      Inc. 

Date:
               August
      9, 2005                      Date:
          August
      15, 2005         

</EX-10>

<EX-3.2>
 11
 bylaws.htm
 BY-LAWS OF ALICO, INC.

By-Laws of Alico, Inc.

Amended
      and Restated By-Laws of Alico, Inc.  

(Amended
      March 31, 2006 Board of Directors Meeting)  

Article
      I 

Principal
      Office  .  
      The
      principal office of the Company shall be at 640 South Main Street, La Belle,
      Florida, or such other place in the state of Florida, as the Board of Directors
      shall from time to time deem advisable and in the best interest of the
      Company. 

Article
      II 

Place,
      Time and Notice of Stockholders Meetings  .  
      The
      annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held at the principal office of
      the
      Company or at such other place, either within or without the state of Florida,
      as may be provided in the notice of the meeting, at a time during the period
      November 30 through January 31 or each year or on such other date as may be
      ordered by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the stockholders may
      be
      held at any time, either within or without the state of Florida, as provided
      in
      the notice of the meeting, and may be called by the Chairman of the Board,
      Chief
      Executive Officer, President, the Board of Directors, or the holders of not
      less
      than one-tenth of the capital stock entitled to vote at the meeting. Notice
      of
      time and place of any meeting of stockholders shall be given as required under
      the laws of the state of I Florida. Any stockholder may waive notice of any
      meeting either before, at or after the meeting. 

Article
      III 

Quorum
      of
      and Voting by Stockholders  .  
      At any
      meeting of the stockholders, a majority in interest of all the capital stock
      issued and utstanding and entitled to vote, represented by stockholders of
      record either in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum, but a less
      interest may adjourn a meeting from time to time and the meeting may be held
      as
      adjourned without further notice. When a quorum is present at any meeting,
      a
      majority in interest of the capital stock represented thereat shall decide
      any
      question brought before such meeting, unless the question be one which by
      express provision of law, or of these By-Laws, a larger or different vote is
      required, in which case such express provision shall govern. 

Article
      IV 

Proxies  .  
      Every
      holder of the capital stock of the Company shall be entitled to one vote for
      each share of capital stock standing in his/her name on the books of the Company
      as provided under the laws of the state of Florida. A stockholder may vote
      either in person or by proxy executed in writing and filed with the Secretary
      before the meeting at which such proxy shall be voted. A proxy shall entitle
      the
      holder thereof to vote at any adjournment of such meeting, but shall not be
      valid after the final adjournment thereof. 

Article
      V 

Number,
      Election and Duties of Directors: Vacancies in Board  .  
      The
      management of the business and affairs of the Company shall be vested in a
      Board
      of Directors ranging from seven (7) to eleven (11), which shall have all of
      the
      powers possessed by the Company itself, so far as this designation of authority
      is not inconsistent with the laws of the state of Florida, the Articles of
      Incorporation, or some other express provision of these By-Laws. The number
      of
      Directors may be increased or decreased from time to time by amendment of the
      By-Laws consistent with the limitations provided in the Articles of
      Incorporation, but no decrease shall have the effect of shortening the tem
      of
      any incumbent director 

At
      each
      annual meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders shall elect Directors
      to
      hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting or until their respective
      successors shall be elected and qualified. The Board of Directors shall
      designate and appoint one of its members as Chairman of the Board, and one
      of
      its members as Vice Chairman of the Board. The stockholders, at any special
      meeting, may remove from office any Director of the Company and may fill the
      vacancy caused by such removal. 

Any
      vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors because of death, resignation,
      removal, or otherwise, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority
      of
      the remaining Directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors.
      Any
      Director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term
      of
      his/her predecessor in office. 

Article
      VI 

Directors'
      Meetings  .
        Meetings.
      Meetings of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may be held either
      within or without the state of Florida. 

The
      Board
      of Directors shall meet each year immediately after the annual meeting of the
      stockholders for the purpose of organization, election of officers, and the
      consideration of any other business that may properly be brought before the
      meeting. No notice of any kind to either old or new members of the Board of
      Directors for such annual meeting shall be necessary. 

Other
      meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place upon notice
      thereof being given in writing to each Director at his/her residence or place
      of
      business upon the call by the President or the Secretary or two or more
      Directors. 

Notice
      of
      any such other meeting of the Board of Directors may be waived in writing signed
      by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the
      time of such meeting, and shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice.
      Attendance of a Director at such other meeting shall constitute a waiver of
      notice of such meeting, except where a Director attends a meeting for the
      express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business, because such
      meeting is not lawfully convened. 

Any
      action of the Board of Directors which is required or permitted to be taken
      at a
      meeting may be taken without a meeting if written consent to the action signed
      by all members of the Board is filed in the minutes of the proceedings of the
      Board prior to the taking of such action. 

Article
      VII 

Quorum
      of
      Board of Directors  .
        A
      majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
      of business, but a less number may adjourn any meeting from time to time, and
      the meeting may be held so adjourned without further notice. The act of a
      majority of the Directors present at a meeting, at which a quorum is present,
      shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by
      law
      or by these By- Laws. 

Article
      VIII 

Designation
      of Committees  .  
      The
      Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board,
      designate one or more committees and appoint Board members to serve on such
      committees pursuant to Section 607.0825, Florida Statutes, each committee to
      consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of
      Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any
      committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting
      of
      the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee,
      the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from
      voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint
      another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of
      any
      such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided
      in the resolution of the Board of Directors or the Charter of said committee,
      shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of
      Directors in the management of the business, property, and affairs of the
      Corporation except as set forth in Section 607.0825 of the Florida Statutes.
      The
      Board of Directors shall approve a Charter for each of its committees. Such
      charter may include the duration and authority of the committee. Each committee
      which has been established by the Board of Directors pursuant to these Bylaws
      may fix its own rules and procedures; provided that a majority of all the
      members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
      business, and the vote of a majority of all the members of a committee present
      at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee.
      Notice of meetings of committees, other than of regular meetings provided for
      by
      committee rules, shall be given to committee members. All action taken by
      committees shall be recorded in minutes of the meetings. 

Committees  .  
      The
      Company shall have an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Nominating
      and Governance Committee, and a Strategic Planning Committee, each to be
      governed by the charters adopted by the Board of Directors. 

Article
      IX 

Officers;
      How Appointed, Vacancies  .
        The
      officers of the Company shall be a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of
      the
      Board, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Chief Financial Officer,
      a
      Controller, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers, assistant
      officers and agents as may be deemed necessary by the Board of
      Directors. 

Any
      person may hold two or more offices except that the President may not also
      be
      the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. 

All
      officers shall be chosen annually by the Board of Directors at its annual
      meeting, or as soon thereafter as may conveniently be possible. 

Any
      officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed
      by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the
      Company will be served thereby. 

Any
      vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, or otherwise,
      shall be filled by the Board of Directors, and the officer so elected or
      appointed shall hold office until his/her successor is chosen and
      qualified. 

Article
      X 

Chairman
      of the Board  .
        The
      Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors
      if
      present, and shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of
      Chairman of the Board and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned
      to him by the Board of Directors. 

Article
      XI 

President/Chief
      Operating Officer  .
        The
      President/Chief Operating Officer of the Company shall be the chief operating
      officer and shall have general supervision of the business of the Company under
      the direction of the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors, and shall
      perform such other duties as the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of
      Directors may prescribe. 

Article
      XII 

Chief
      Executive Officer  .
        The
      Chief
      Executive Officer of the Corporation shall have the general and active
      management of the business of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board or
      the
      President shall be the Chief Executive Officer, subject to the control of the
      Board of Directors, as may be fiom time to time designated by resolution of
      the
      Board of Directors. 

Article
      XIII 

Vice
      Presidents  .
        Each
      Vice
      President shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of
      Directors may from time to time prescribe or as the President may from time
      to
      time delegate to him/her. In case of the absence or inability of the President
      to act, any Vice President, at the direction of the President or of the Board
      of
      Directors, may temporarily act in his/her place. 

Article
      XIV 

Secretary  .
        The
      Secretary shall keep accurate minutes of the meetings of the stockholders and
      of
      the Board of Directors, shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance
      with the provisions of these By-Laws and as required by law; shall be custodian
      of the records and of the seal of the Company and see that the seal is affixed
      to all documents the execution of which on behalf of the Company under its
      seal
      is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws; and
      in
      general shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such
      other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him/her by the Board of
      Directors or the President. 

Article
      XV 

Treasurer  .  
      The
      Treasurer shall be the financial officer of the Company and shall have custody
      of all of the monies of the Company and shall keep accurate records and accounts
      thereof which shall be subject to the inspection and control of the Board of
      Directors at all times. He/she shall, in general, perform all the duties
      incident to his/her office and such other duties as may from time to time be
      assigned to him/her by the Board of Directors or by the President. The Treasurer
      shall if required so to do by the Board of Directors give the Company a bond
      in
      such amount and with such surety or sureties as may be ordered by the Board
      of
      Directors for faithful performance of the duties of his/her office. 

Article
      XVI 

Controller  .  
      The
      Controller shall be the accounting officer of the Company and shall keep
      accurate books and records of accounts to show all of the Company's
      transactions. He/she shall perform all other duties incident to his/her office
      and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him/her by the
      Board of Directors or by the President.  

Article
      XVII 

Issuance
      of Stock  .
        Stock
      certificates shall be in a form not inconsistent with the Articles
      ofIncorporation and as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. All
      certificates shall be consecutively numberedand shall show the name of the
      person owning the share orshares, the number of shares owned and the date of
      the
      issuance thereof, and shall be signed by the President or a Vice President
      and
      be attested by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary with the corporate seal
      affixed thereto. Where any such certificate is signed by a transfer agent or
      an
      assistant transfer agent, other then the Company itself, or by a transfer clerk
      acting on behalf of the Company and a registrar, the signature of any officer
      herein named may be facsimile. In case any officer who has signed or whose
      facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased
      to
      be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the
      Company with the same effect as if he/she were such officer at the date of
      its
      issue. 

Article
      XVIII 

Transfer
      of Stock  .  
      The
      shares of stock shall be transferred as provided by the laws of the state of
      Florida. No transfer shall affect the right of the Company to pay any dividend
      due upon the stock or to treat the holder of record as the holder in fact until
      such transfer is recorded on the books of the Company or a new certificate
      is
      issued to the person to whom it has been so transferred. It shall be the duty
      of
      every stockholder to notify the Company of his/her post office
      address. 

Article
      XIX 

Deeds,
      Mortgages, Contracts, Etc  .
        Deeds,
      Mortgages, Contracts, Etc. Subject always to specific directions of the Board
      of
      Directors, all deeds, mortgages, bonds, promissory notes, leases and other
      written contracts and agreements to which the Company is a party shall be
      executed in its name by the Chairman of the I Board, Chief Executive Officer,
      President or any Vice President and attested by the Secretary or an Assistant
      Secretary, and the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, when necessary or required,
      shall affix the corporate seal thereto. 

Article
      XX 

Indemnification
      of Directors and Officers  .
        The
      Company shall indemnify each Director and Officer against expenses, costs and
      liabilities actually and necessarily incurred or paid by him/her in connection
      with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding in which he/she is made
      a
      party by reason of him/her being or having been a Director or Officer of the
      Company except in relation to matters as to which he/she shall be adjudged
      in
      such action, suit or proceeding to be liable for negligence or misconduct in
      the
      performance of his/her duties as such Director or Officer, and such right of
      indemnification hereby conferred shall not be deemed exclusive of any other
      rights to which he/she may be entitled under any By-Law, agreement, vote of
      stockholders or otherwise. 

Article
      XXI 

Amendments  .  
      These
      By-Laws may be amended, added to, altered or repealed at any meeting of the
      Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board
      of
      Directors provided that notice is given in the call of said meeting that an
      amendment, addition, alteration or repeal is to be acted upon. 

The
      stockholders of the Company at any annual or special meeting may also, by the
      affirmative vote of a majority in interest of the capital stock issued and
      outstanding and entitled to vote, amend, add to or repeal these By-Laws,
      provided that notice is given in the call of said meeting that an amendment,
      addition, alteration or repeal is to be acted upon. The Board of Directors
      may
      not amend, alter or repeal any By-Law adopted by the stockholders. 

Article
      XXII 

Control-Share
      Acquisitions.   The
      corporation exercises its right, pursuant to Section607.109(5) of the Florida
      Statutes, to avoid the provisions pertaining to control-share acquisitions
      contained in Sections 607.109,607.244(c) and 607.247(2), Florida
      Statutes. 

</EX-3.2>

