<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061010_10-K_edgar_data_3952_0000950133-06-004392_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1235623</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>305465</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>564421</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950133-06-004392.hdr.sgml : 20061009
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061010060537
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950133-06-004392
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061010
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061010

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALLIED DEFENSE GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000003952
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ORDNANCE & ACCESSORIES, (NO VEHICLES/GUIDED MISSILES) [3480]
		IRS NUMBER:				042281015
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11376
		FILM NUMBER:		061135326

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 TOWERS CRESCENT DR
		STREET 2:		SUITE 260
		CITY:			VIENNA
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22182
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7038475268

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 TOWERS CRESCENT DRIVE
		STREET 2:		STE 750
		CITY:			VIENNA
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22182

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALLIED RESEARCH CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALLIED RESEARCH ASSOCIATES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880601

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SNfuRqkIiNW2Xz4kwGQLLzGkvJxPm2SqMtZS3D0WInjs6W0/oekCBWSodjRA79hf
 joY26AGMTNicqP7jh8D6Uw==

 0000950133-06-004392.txt : 20061010

10-K
 1
 w25671e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

Commission file number: 1-11376 

THE ALLIED DEFENSE GROUP, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

8000 Towers Crescent Drive, Suite 260 
Vienna, Virginia 22182  
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)

(703) 847-5268  
(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of Class 

Name of Exchange  

Common Stock, $0.10 Par Value 

American Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.  YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer.

Large accelerated filer          Accelerated filer          Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). YES     NO    

The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates as of June
30, 2005 and June 30, 2006, the last days of the registrant s two most recently completed second
fiscal quarters, was $125,740,005 and $126,320,631 respectively. For purposes of this
determination, only our directors and executive officers have been deemed affiliates.

The number of shares of registrant s Common Stock outstanding as of September 29, 2006, was
6,032,465.

INDEX 

PART I 

Item 1. Business 

1 

Item 1A. Risk Factors

8 

Item 2. Properties

15 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

15 

Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

16 

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Stock and Related Stockholder Matters And Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

16 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

17 

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

18 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

33 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

34 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

34 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

34 

Item 9B. Other Information

35 

PART III 

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers

35 

Item 11. Executive Compensation

37 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners, Management   Related Stockholder Matters 

40 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

43 

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Service

43 

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

43 

SIGNATURES 

46 

iii

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. ( Allied  or the  Company ) is a diversified, multinational
portfolio of defense and security businesses. Through our two primary segments, Ammunition  
Weapons Effects and Electronic Security we specialize in delivering sophisticated defense and
security solutions for government and commercial requirements worldwide.

Allied was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1961 under the name Allied Research
Associates, Inc. Allied changed its corporate name to Allied Research Corporation in 1988 and
subsequently changed its name to The Allied Defense Group, Inc. effective January 2, 2003.
Allied s strategic defense and security businesses are conducted through MECAR S.A. ( MECAR ), a
group of Belgian and U.S. corporations consisting of VSK Electronics N.V., T l  Technique G n rale
S.A., Intelligent Data Capturing Systems N.V., VIGITEC S.A. and CMS Security Systems (collectively,
 VSK ), MECAR USA, Inc. ( MECAR USA ), News/Sports Microwave Rental Inc. ( NSM ), Titan Dynamic
Systems, Inc. ( Titan ), Global Microwave Systems, Inc. ( GMS ), and SeaSpace Corporation
( SeaSpace ). In late 2003, the Company organized MECAR USA, Inc. ( MECAR USA ). In 2004, Allied
Technology, LLC ( Allied Technology ) was formed to coordinate the activities of MECAR USA and
Titan. The following table summarizes the Company s significant acquisitions:

In order to continue building a strong worldwide strategic portfolio of defense and security
businesses and to improve profitability, Allied has adopted a growth strategy that focuses on the
following objectives:

Stimulate organic growth by expanding product offerings, increasing market share in existing markets, and
penetrating new markets 

Enhance marketing and business development efforts between each subsidiary to increase sales and backlog 

Successfully integrate new subsidiaries to ensure profitability and accretion 

Make additional strategic acquisitions that complement existing operating segments 

All amounts are reported in thousands of dollars, except for share data.

Description of Business  

Allied    Allied provides management, strategic guidance, business development, sales,
marketing, export licensing, procurement, logistic support, treasury and government relations
services for its subsidiaries. Allied reorganized its operations in the 4 th  quarter of
2005   adopting a new management model to increase coordination and synergies between the various
operating units. The Company refocused itself on two core competencies   Ammunition and Weapons
Effects and Electronic Security. Compliant with all the provisions of FAS 131    Disclosure about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related information , the Company will report the operations of
MECAR, MECAR USA and Titan in one operating segment   Ammunition and Weapons Effects (AWE). MECAR
and MECAR USA had previously been reported in the Ordnance and Manufacturing operating segment and
Titan had been reported by itself in the Software, Training and Simulation operating segment.

The Company retained the Electronic Security operating segment and added to it Global Microwave
Systems (GMS)   which it acquired in November 2005. GMS makes video radio transmitters for use in
military and civilian surveillance applications. Finally the Company took the SeaSpace subsidiary
  formerly reported by itself in the Environmental Safety and Security Segment and renamed it
Other. A more complete discussion of FAS 131 issues appears in later in this document. As
required under FAS 131 the Company has restated all prior period segment information to be
consistent with the 2005 segment reporting.

Ammunition   Weapons Effects Segment  

This segment replaces the Ordnance   Manufacturing segment and is now combined with the former
Software, Training   Simulation segment. This new segment includes the Belgium subsidiary MECAR
and the two U.S. companies, MECAR USA
(first became operational in 2005) and Titan (formerly in the Software, Training   Simulation
segment). MECAR and MECAR USA focus on ammunition and light weapons, while Titan specializes in
battlefield effects simulators utilizing pyrotechnic devices.

1 

MECAR.  MECAR designs, develops, manufactures and sells ammunition and light weapons for
military use. Substantially all of MECAR s revenues are derived from the sale of ammunition which
is used with weapons that are generally considered defensive weapons. From time to time, MECAR
provides system integration services pursuant to which it purchases and resells weapon systems
and/or ammunition manufactured by others. MECAR s products consist of a wide variety of ammunition
and grenades in the medium caliber, artillery, anti-tank and anti-personnel categories. The
following are the principal products produced and sold by MECAR:

Mortar Ammunition  The 120mm family is state of the art ammunition for standard field
mortars and for the turreted Armored Mortar System (AMS). The current version of this ammunition
has successfully completed qualification with the U.S. Army, together with the 120mm AMS Light
Armored Vehicle (LAV) system. This system is capable of direct as well as indirect fire, and MECAR
has developed and qualified a direct fire fuze for the AMS. The 81mm family of mortar ammunition
has been modernized to compete with the latest generation of this product line. A 60mm round of
mortar ammunition is being developed.

90mm Tank Ammunition  MECAR develops and produces complete families of 90mm ammunition
that include Armor Piercing Fin Stabilized Discarding Sabot (APFSDS), High Explosive (HE), High
Explosive Anti-Tank (HEAT), Smoke (SMK) and High Explosive Squash Head (HESH) rounds for the
COCKERILL Mk II and III, ENGESA EC-90, the DEFA F1 and the CN 90 F3   F4 guns. The 90mm KENERGA
Weapon System has been jointly developed by Cockerill Mechanical Systems ( CMI ) and MECAR to
provide the modern LAV with anti-tank punch similar to that of tanks equipped with 105mm guns,
without sacrifice to the range, mobility and maintainability of the light LAV. In this
partnership, CMI is responsible for the weapon and MECAR for the ammunition. The ammunition
products include the APFSDS, HESH and SMK versions with their corresponding training rounds.

105mm  Tank Ammunition  MECAR produces the entire range of 105mm tank ammunition.
These include the APFSDS, High Explosive Anti-Tank (HEAT), HESH and SMK, with their corresponding
training rounds. Additionally, it has produced specialized short range training rounds for the
Belgian Army. In 2003, MECAR, in partnership with L-3 Communications, won the competition to
deliver the 105mm High Explosive Plastic   Tracer (HEP-T) and Training Practice   Tracer (TP-T)
rounds to the U.S. Army for the Stryker BCT systems. The rounds have been type classified as the
M393A3 and M467A1 respectively, and material release occurred in the 2 nd  quarter of
2005. MECAR has also produced 100mm APFSDS-T rounds for pro-western clients in the Far East.

Other Ammunition  MECAR has produced 155mm HE, SMK(WP) and Illuminating rounds for
various customers. The 25mm APFSDS-T ammunition round is MECAR s entry into the medium caliber
arena. MECAR manufactures HE, HESH and HESH-PRAC ammunition for the 76mm L23 guns, which are in
service with armored vehicles in several countries in Europe, South America, Africa and the Far
East. MECAR has developed and manufactured ammunition for the 106mm Recoilless Rifle. MECAR has
also developed and manufactured the 84mm SAKR Recoilless Rifle and its associated family of
ammunition. The SAKR fills the gap between rifle grenades and the 90mm family of guns and
ammunition. The SAKR ammunition (HEAT, HE, SMK, ILL and HEAT-TP-T) is also interoperable with
existing 84mm systems.

Grenades  MECAR manufactures two types of grenades: the M72 controlled fragmentation
hand grenade and the universal bullet trap rifle grenade. The universal bullet trap rifle grenade
is designed to be light, effective, accurate and simple to use. It is fitted over the muzzle of
any standard military rifle with a muzzle outer diameter of 22mm and fired from the shoulder in the
normal manner. MECAR manufactures several different bullet trap grenades including high explosive
fragmentation, anti-personnel, armor piercing, smoke generating, white phosphorus, and parachute
flare (night illuminating). A new dual-purpose rifle grenade with an electronic dual safety fuse
is under development for a European client.

MECAR USA.  MECAR USA is pursuing contracts from the U. S. Government and others for
ammunition and pyrotechnics devices. MECAR USA became operational in late-2005 following completed
construction of a new facility in Marshall, Texas and is focusing on the 105mm tank ammunition
market.

Titan.  Titan designs, manufactures and sells an extensive line of battlefield effects
simulators. These systems provide military personnel with real time, thermal, audio/visual
battlefield effects commonly experienced in wartime to enhance training realism. The simulators
fire pyrotechnic cartridges that simulate the flash, smoke and sound of fired or exploding
ammunition and ordnance systems. Titan s principal product lines are Omega 36/B2 and Omega 60/B2
battlefield effects simulators (BES), the Multi Air Defense Simulator System (MADSS), the Rocket
Propelled Grenade System (RPGS) and the E-Pryo Simulator devices. The Omega 36/B2 and the Omega
60/B2 BES are 36 shot and 60 shot programmable dispensers which discharge multiple Titan-produced
cartridges that produce various pyrotechnic effects such as flash/bang, colored smokes, air burst,
star clusters and missile firing

2 

signatures. The MADSS and the RPGS are multi-spectrum training systems used to simulate aircrew s
and ground crew s internal attack warning systems while also providing the real-time
thermal/audio/visual battlefield effects related to the attack. The Company s focus for the future
is to design and manufacture innovative new products for the military training environment and
exploit its patented initiation technologies to a wide variety of applicable commercial fields.

Allied Technology.  Allied Technology was formed in 2004 and is a holding company for MECAR
USA and Titan to administer contracts and coordinating the operational and management activities of
these two companies.

Electronic Security Segment  

This segment includes VSK located in Belgium, NSM and Global Microwave Systems (acquired in
November, 2005). The Electronic Security segment provides products in the areas of security
systems, surveillance and, electronic data transmission.

VSK Group.  VSK designs, manufactures, sells, and installs security systems for government and
private industry. VSK consists of five companies: VSK Electronics N.V., T l  Technique G n rale
S.A., Intelligent Data Capturing Systems (IDCS) N.V., VIGITEC S.A., and CMS Security Systems, Inc.
VSK Electronics N.V. manufactures access control and fire detection systems; T l  Technique
G n rale S.A. installs security systems; IDCS N.V. manufactures integrated video systems; VIGITEC
S.A. installs networked video surveillance systems; and CMS Security Systems manufactures and
markets its own products access control systems and will market VSK products once final product
certifications are received in 2006. These firms combine to create a wealth of technical knowledge
in hardware and software development and closed circuit monitoring, along with the latest trends in
data transmission and communication protocols for a host of protection and detection security
systems. VSK s systems offer total integration with all aspects of data collection and management,
surveillance, protection and detection with either direct and/or remote programming options for
maximum control. The latest technological systems include biometric verification, asset tracking
and digital closed circuit television distribution. VSK acquired CMS Security Systems, Inc. on
August 1, 2004 with a goal of using this entity to market VSK Group products in the North American
market. VSK Group products are currently undergoing testing and certifications required before
such products can be marketed and sold in the United States. We estimate that final certifications
will be received in late 2006.

NSM.  NSM develops sophisticated microwave surveillance systems used in law enforcement, port
security, border security, airport security, high-end commercial security, and citywide
surveillance applications and defense applications. The company is currently providing operations
support for U.S. forces in Iraq. The company s products and services are used for gathering,
transmitting, receiving and processing multiple signals from remote locations. The company
develops, assembles and sells electronic technology products and systems for users to operate
through the company s proprietary hardware, software and communication links. NSM s systems and
products include cameras, command/control systems, video concealments, microwave link solutions,
and other sensors. NSM offers fixed observation/transmit surveillance installations in addition to
mobile command centers and airborne camera/tracking/transmit packages.

Global Microwave Systems.  GMS designs and manufactures miniature and sub-miniature FM and
digital transmitters, receivers, and related equipment for investigative, surveillance, and
security applications, and live TV news/sports/entertainment coverage. GMS s proprietary products
occupy a commanding position within the Federal law enforcement community, and are widely used in
organized crime, narcotics, and anti-terrorism investigations and prosecutions. GMS products are
currently in use by both U.S. and coalition forces in counter-insurgency and anti-terrorism
operations abroad. Because of their sub-miniature size, low power requirements, high fidelity, and
long ranges, they have proven ideal for incorporation into the sensor suites of unmanned vehicles.

Other Segment   . 

This segment includes the formerly named Environmental Safety   Security segment and provides
products in the area of environmental monitoring and consists solely of SeaSpace.

SeaSpace.  SeaSpace designs, manufactures, distributes and services weather and environmental
satellite ground reception systems. Its proprietary TeraScan    software processes earth
remote sensing satellite data for mission-critical applications requiring timely and accurate
weather and environmental information. Founded in 1982, SeaSpace pioneered the development of
cost-effective, easily deployed systems, and has built a worldwide base of over 450 military,
commercial, and academic customers. SeaSpace has also established market leadership in
development and deployment of ground stations supporting the newest generation of  X-Band 
satellites being launched by NASA and other organizations. The company also manufactures and
markets a line of antenna products for satellite communications.

3 

Geographic Areas and Industry Segments  

See Note V to Allied s consolidated financial statements for information concerning the
geographic areas and industry segments of Allied which information is incorporated herein by
reference. As noted above, in late 2005, the Company revised its segments from four to three. The
Company operates in two principal segments and one smaller segment: Ammunition   Weapons Effects
segment which consists of MECAR, MECAR USA and Titan and the Electronic Security segment which
consists of VSK, NSM, and GMS. The Other segment consists soley of SeaSpace.

Market and Customers  

Allied derives the principal portion of its revenue in the Ammunition   Weapons Effects
segment from direct and indirect sales to foreign governments and prime contractors, primarily on
fixed price contracts. One foreign government accounted for approximately 44% in 2005, 56% in
2004, and 58% in 2003, of Allied s revenue, directly or indirectly, as detailed in Note A to
Allied s consolidated financial statements. Commencing in early 2000, MECAR designated a former
marketing representative as its independent distributor/value added reseller to foreign government
customers (the  Distributor ). The Distributor obtains a contract from the end user customer and
subcontracts a portion of the work to MECAR. The products that MECAR produces are sold to the
Distributor for resale to the foreign government agencies end users.

Ammunition   Weapons Effects products are sold either directly or indirectly to the defense
departments of governments. MECAR is regulated by Belgian law regarding the foreign governments
with which it may do business. The sales by MECAR in any given period and its backlog at any
particular time may be significantly influenced by one or a few large orders. An order for MECAR s
products is often for a large quantity and/or a substantial aggregate price, primarily because
materials required for the manufacture of the products cannot be economically purchased in small
quantities and because of the favorable economies of large volume production. Most of the contracts
received by MECAR require delivery in approximately one year. Accordingly, MECAR s business is
dependent upon its ability to obtain such large orders. MECAR frequently accepts smaller orders in
an attempt to increase its customer base and efficiently use its manufacturing capacity.

When MECAR obtains a contract for the sale of its products, it generally receives down
payment(s) and/or letter(s) of credit to be applied to the purchase price upon shipment of the
products. In such cases, MECAR is generally required to provide advance payment guarantees and
performance bonds issued by its bank syndicate. MECAR has from time-to-time received foreign
military sale ( FMS ) contracts from the U.S. Government for the manufacture of ammunition for the
benefit of a foreign government customer. Such contracts may be terminated for convenience by the
government or upon default by the manufacturer. The contracts received by MECAR through the FMS
system do not require down payments, letters of credit, advance payment guarantees or performance
bonds. MECAR USA s current customers are the United States Government and U.S.-based prime
contractors. Titan customers include a number of Army, National Guard and Marine Corps ranges and
training centers.

In the Electronic Security segment, VSK derives substantially all of its revenue from sales
and services to private industry such as banks, hospitals, commercial businesses, office buildings
and to local governments. VSK sells some of its products/services directly to the end users; in
most instances it sells its systems to independent distributors and resellers for resale to the end
users. The customers of VSK are principally located in Belgium and in neighboring countries.
While most of the orders received by VSK are for work which can be completed within one year, it
has received multi-year orders for its products and services. VSK Electronics and IDCS sell their
products principally in European markets. VIGITEC and T l  Technique G n rale sell their products
in Belgium and in other European markets. CMS Security Systems sells its products principally in
the U.S.. VSK expects to market its products in the U.S. through CMS Security Systems following
final product certifications, the last of which are expected to be received in late 2006. NSM s
customers include U.S. Government agencies, as well as, state and local law enforcement agencies.
The U.S. Government agencies have historically accounted for a majority of NSM s revenues. GMS
sells its products to Law Enforcement markets and integrators in the surveillance, search and
rescue, military, TV broadcast and entertainment markets worldwide. The Electronic Security
segment is not dependent upon any single large customer for a majority of its revenue.

In the Other segment, SeaSpace customers include numerous users with need for mission-critical
weather and environmental information, including scientists/researchers, universities, military
forces and other government and commercial users. The Other segment is not dependent upon any
single large customer for a majority of its revenue.

Principal Customers  

MECAR has historically received a large percentage of its revenue from agencies of a foreign
government. See Note A to Allied s consolidated financial statements. MECAR receives contracts
for the benefit of these customers via the Distributor and has also received contracts for the
benefit of these customers via the FMS program. Each of NSM and Titan has historically
received the substantial majority of its revenue from agencies of the U.S. Government. GMS
receives the substantial majority of its revenue from long term Government Federal Agency
contracts, and from customers who integrate their products in Military UAV/UGV programs and TV
broadcasters.

4 

Raw Materials and Suppliers  

In the Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment, production of ammunition requires an ample supply
of chemicals, pyrotechnic materials, metal component parts and casings. MECAR generally attempts to
ensure that several vendors will be available in the open market to compete for all supply
contracts. However, once the development phase is complete and the design has been stabilized for
certain products, the continued availability of supplies can become critical to its ability to
perform a particular contract. MECAR seeks to protect itself against shortages and similar risks
by planning alternative means of production, by producing internally, and by monitoring the
availability and sources of supplies. MECAR and MECAR USA depend upon major suppliers to provide a
continuous flow of such components and materials where in-house capability does not exist, and has
generally found such materials and supplies to be readily available. In 2003, MECAR acquired
certain assets of a pyrotechnics supplier to mitigate future supply issues. Titan has adequate
numbers of suppliers for most components. If a vendor change or addition is required, additional
time and funds may be required to evaluate and certify vendors prior to use. In the past, this has
not been a critical problem.

In the Electronic Security segment, VSK, NSM and GMS rely upon a number of select
subcontractors to supply the requisite electronic hardware for its security systems. To date, each
entity has found such subcontract materials to be readily available. All three firms outsource the
majority of their hardware assembly and manufacturing while maintaining the core design, assembly,
integration, engineering and test activities in house.

In the Other segment, SeaSpace uses a variety of high quality vendors to produce various
hardware components and subsystems. Adequate numbers of vendors exist for all significant
components and subsystems. Software is developed in-house with existing technical staff.

Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of the Company s raw materials, difficulty
completing qualification of new sources of supply, or implementing use of replacement materials or
new sources of supply could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, financial
condition, or results of operations.

Marketing  

Most of the marketing activities of the Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment are handled by
MECAR, MECAR USA and Titan staff of sales engineers, executive personnel and a parent company
business development team dedicated to the AWE segment. In addition, MECAR advertises in trade
journals and participates in trade shows. MECAR is also represented by marketing representatives
in different markets and has designated a Distributor for indirect sales to its principal end user
customers.

Electronic Security segment markets its products principally through its executive personnel
and the staff of sales personnel of VSK, NSM and GMS and a parent company business development
team dedicated to the ES segment. Marketing activities of VSK outside of Belgium are conducted
by independent distributors. GMS marketing includes exhibiting at industry trade shows, industry
publications and Internet search advertising. GMS also relies on System Integrators and OEM
customers for resale of its products. In addition, the Electronic Security segment advertises in
trade journals and participates in trade shows.

The Other segment markets its products in the United States principally through its executive
management and its sales personnel. Marketing activities outside of the United States are
conducted by independent distributors, supported by SeaSpace executive management and sales
personnel. In addition, the Other segment advertises in trade journals and participates in trade
shows.

Research and Development  

In the Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment, the development of ammunition and weapon systems
requires knowledge and experience in aerodynamics, mechanical engineering, chemistry, combustion,
materials behavior and ballistics. MECAR maintains an active research and development staff,
including a staff of design engineers, in order to determine how materials can be used or combined
in new ways to improve performance or to solve new problems. In 2005, 2004, and 2003, the
Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment expended $1,854, $1,579 and $1,092, respectively, for research
and development activities. MECAR designed most of the products which it currently manufactures.
MECAR designs and develops most of its special tooling, fixtures and special explosive loading and
testing systems.

5 

The Electronic Security business requires continuous investment in research and development to
update and enhance its security systems. VSK, NSM, GMS employ staffs of design engineers
specialized in the field of electronic hardware and software system design During 2005, 2004, and
2003, the Electronic Security segment expended $4,421, $2,741 and $2,452, respectively, on research
and development.

The Other segment requires regular investment in research and development to continually
update and enhance its products to remain competitive. SeaSpace employs design engineers
specialized in the fields of electronic hardware/software and weather and environmental satellite
ground reception systems. $915, $2,375 and $988 was expended on research development in 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.

Backlog  

As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, Allied had backlog orders believed to be firm,
after giving effect to the percentage of completion method of accounting for its contracts of
approximately $93.3 million and $77.3 million, respectively. A substantial portion of the backlog
of orders as of December   31, 2005 is expected to be filled in 2006. The December 31, 2005
and 2004 backlog was as follows:

Electronic Security backlog included an unfunded portion from a federal contract of $8.3
million and $9.4 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Competition  

The munitions business is highly competitive. MECAR has a number of competitors throughout
the world, including the United States. Many of its competitors are substantially larger companies
with greater capital resources and broader product lines. Many of its competitors have existing
relationships with governments and countries in which MECAR markets its products. For example,
many countries will only acquire ammunition and other military items from vendors located in said
countries. In many other countries, it is important to have an independent marketing
representative. Competition is mainly based upon accessibility to potential markets, technical
expertise, quality, capabilities of the product, price and ability to meet delivery schedules.
The downsizing of the munitions industrial base has resulted in a reduction in the number of
competitors through consolidations and departures from the industry. This has reduced the number
of competitors in some programs, but has strengthened the capabilities of some of the remaining
competitors. In addition, it is possible that there will be increasing competition from the
remaining competitors in business areas they do not currently compete in. The U.S. battlefield
effects simulator market where Titan competes is relatively small and has been principally served
by an entrenched, substantially larger competitor. Historically, the market has not attracted new
entrants. Titan believes that it has superior technology that should permit it to gain a
substantially larger share once required government testing and certification is completed.

The nature of the competition encountered by the Electronic Security segment depends upon the
sub-segment of the security systems business. In the development and manufacturing area, there are
a number of larger competitors, many with greater financial resources than VSK. In the
installation and services area, VSK competes with a number of smaller, local competitors. VSK
anticipates attempting to market and sell its products in the United States where there are a
number of well-established competitors. NSM competes with niche suppliers of specialized security
products as well as much larger companies with substantially greater financial and other resources.
GMS competes with a small number of different manufacturers that operate in its niche markets.

Competition at SeaSpace, in the Other segment, for ground station systems and antennas is vigorous
but usually limited to fewer than a dozen suppliers, some of which are substantially larger than
SeaSpace. Competition often hinges on customer satisfaction, risk associated with trying a new
supplier on mission-critical applications, technical capability and price. In recent years, demand
has temporarily softened due to a short-term decrease in the number of world-wide satellite
launches. As a result, price competition has intensified in this segment, resulting in reduced
prices and margins.

6 

Seasonal Nature of Business  

The Company s business in general is not seasonal, although the summer and winter holiday
seasons affect Company revenue because of the impact of holidays and vacations on the Company s
international operations. Variations in the Company s business may also occur at the expiration of
major contracts until such contracts are renewed or new businesses obtained.

The U.S. Government s fiscal year ends on September 30 of each year. It is not uncommon for
government agencies to award extra tasks or complete other contract actions in the weeks before the
end of the fiscal year in order to avoid the loss of unexpected fiscal year funds. Moreover, in
the years when the U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its
fiscal year, government operations typically are funded pursuant to a  continuing resolution  that
authorizes agencies of the government to continue to operate but traditionally does not authorize
spending on new initiatives. When the government operates pursuant to a continuing resolution,
delays can occur in procurement of products and services, and such delays can affect the Company s
revenue and profit during the period of delay.

Personnel  

As of December   31, 2005, the Company collectively had 698 full and part-time employees
as follows:

The classification of employees noted above for MECAR and VSK is in accordance with Belgian
law. MECAR s hourly workers are represented by a labor union. The Company s relations with the
labor union have historically been good.

Patents and Trademarks  

NSM holds a patent on a mechanical mast that is a key component of certain security systems it
supplies to law enforcement agencies. The patent was granted in 1997. Titan holds patents on its
weapon discharge simulation system (granted in 1993), its electrostatically dischargeable primer
(granted in 1999), its electric impulse cartridge (granted in 2001) and an electric gun (granted in
2002). SeaSpace has the TERASCAN and SEASPACE trademarks and has a patent pending on its new AXYOM
antenna technology. None of the other Allied subsidiaries holds other significant patents or
trademarks.

Environmental Regulations  

Allied does not anticipate that compliance with any laws or regulations relating to
environmental protection will have a material effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position, although new environmental regulations which go into effect in Belgium in the
coming years will require some level of expenditures by MECAR. The expenditures are expected to
aggregate approximately $100 to $200.

Available Information  

Our principal Internet address is www.allieddefensegroup.com. We make available free of
charge on www.allieddefensegroup.com our annual, quarterly and current reports, and amendments to
those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with,
or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding
exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
8000 Towers Crescent Drive, Suite 260 
Vienna, Virginia 22182 
(703) 847-5268

7 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUE TO BE LARGELY INFLUENCED BY THE RESULTS OF MECAR.

MECAR continues to provide the principal portion of our revenues. In 2005, 2004 and 2003,
MECAR contributed 60%, 64%, and 73%, respectively, of our annual revenue.

AT MECAR, OUR REVENUE CONTINUES TO BE CONCENTRATED AMONG A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS.

A significant percentage of our revenue is concentrated among a relatively small number of
end-user customers. During the last five calendar years, two agencies of The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia and the U.S. Army, via direct sales and Foreign Military Sales (FMS), have provided the
majority of our revenues. The loss of such a significant customer or a substantial decrease in
sales to such a customer would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.
Additionally, there may be significant gaps in time periods between receipt of significant
contracts from these customers which may cause substantial swings in our operating results.

MECAR DEPENDS UPON AN INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTOR FOR THE SALE OF PRODUCTS AND ANY DISRUPTION IN THIS
RELATIONSHIP COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US.

MECAR currently sells and supports its products to its principal customers in the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia through an independent distributor. Any disruption or termination of this distributor
relationship could negatively impact our operations.

WE DO NOT HAVE LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS AND OUR CUSTOMERS MAY CEASE PURCHASING OUR
PRODUCTS AT ANY TIME.

We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements
with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Accordingly, while we have served
our principal customers for many years, our customers can cease purchasing our products at any time
without penalty.

OUR MARKETS FOR AMMUNITION SALES ARE LIMITED BY THE AVAILABILITY OF BELGIAN EXPORT LICENSES.

Belgian law requires that MECAR obtain a government-issued export license to ship its
ammunition products to other countries for each order it receives. From time to time, MECAR has
been forced to decline an order from a customer due to refusal of the government to issue the
export license. Such refusals have been based on actual or perceived deficiencies of the recipient
country s government or for other reasons. Failure to obtain export licenses for sales to MECAR s
traditional customer base would adversely affect our operations and financial results.

OUR SUPPLIERS HAVE FROM TIME TO TIME BEEN LATE IN DELIVERY OF KEY SUPPLIES WHICH HAS DELAYED OUR
PRODUCTION AND HAD A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

MECAR s operations are dependent on the ability of certain suppliers to deliver supplies on a
timely basis. From time to time, MECAR has experienced substantial delays in receipt of needed
supplies which has caused delays in MECAR s production activities.

FIRES OR EXPLOSIVE INCIDENTS MAY DISRUPT OUR AMMUNITION   WEAPONS EFFECTS BUSINESS.

MECAR s products frequently involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive
and flammable materials. From time to time, this manufacturing and/or handling has resulted in
incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing
production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries. We cannot assure you that we
will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result
in production delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations.

MECAR S UNION WORKFORCE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

MECAR s employees are unionized. Our inability to negotiate acceptable terms with the unions
could result in strikes or work stoppages or increased operating costs as a result of higher wages
or benefits paid to union members. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other
work stoppage, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher
ongoing labor costs, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or
results of operations. The union employees are not subject to a national collective bargaining
agreement with an established expiration date.

8 

WE MAY EXPERIENCE PRODUCT FAILURES, SCHEDULE DELAYS OR OTHER PROBLEMS WITH EXISTING OR NEW PRODUCTS
AND SYSTEMS, ANY OF WHICH COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS.

We may experience product and service failures, schedule delays and other problems in
connection with the manufacture or delivery of our products. In addition to any costs resulting
from product warranties, contract performance or required remedial action, these failures may
result in increased costs or loss of revenues due to postponement of subsequently scheduled product
and service deliveries. Performance penalties could also be imposed should we fail to meet
delivery schedules or other measures of contract performance.

NEWLY FORMED SUBSIDIARIES MAY NOT PERFORM AS EXPECTED.

MECAR USA was formed to acquire munitions contracts in the United States and to serve as an
extended production facility for MECAR. Risks include the inability of MECAR USA to negotiate or
win contracts in the United States, an unwillingness by potential customers to contract with a
newly formed company, and/or the inability to generate enough revenue to cover operating costs over
the long-term. Nor are there any guarantees that MECAR will be able to forward new or existing
orders for fulfillment at MECAR USA.

LARGE CONTRACT ORDERS MAY NOT BE FULFILLED.

Due in part to a substantial Battlefield Effect Simulator (BES) contract award received in
2005, we expect that Titan will need to grow substantially to fulfill contract demands. Such
expected large orders may not be performed on a profitable basis as Titan ramps up to meet the
expected demand due to an inability to find key engineering personnel, enough production workers,
supplier disruptions, etc.

WE ARE NOT ABLE TO GUARANTEE THAT CONTRACT ORDERS INCLUDED IN OUR ESTIMATED BACKLOG WILL RESULT IN
ACTUAL REVENUES IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD OR THAT THE ACTUAL REVENUES FROM SUCH CONTRACTS
WILL EQUAL OUR ESTIMATED BACKLOG.

There can be no assurance that any contracts included in our estimated backlog presented in
this filing will result in actual revenues in any particular period or that the actual revenues
from such contracts will equal our estimated backlog. Further, there can be no assurance that any
contract included in our estimated backlog that generates revenue will be profitable.

OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO MANY FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE OUR QUARTERLY OR ANNUAL OPERATING RESULTS
TO FLUCTUATE AND OUR STOCK PRICE TO BE VOLATILE.

Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate
significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control.
If our quarterly or annual operating results do not meet the expectations of the investor
community, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. Some of the factors
that could affect our quarterly or annual operating results include:

the timing and amount of, or cancellation or rescheduling of, orders for our products; 

our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products and product
enhancements and manage product transitions, announcements and new product introductions; 

our ability to achieve cost reductions; 

our ability to achieve and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; 

the volume of products sold and the mix of distribution channels through which they are sold; 

the loss of any one of our major customers or a significant reduction in orders from those customers; and 

increased competition, particularly from larger, better capitalized competitors. 

Due to these and other factors, quarterly or annual revenue, expenses and results of
operations could vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons should not be
relied upon as indications of future performance.

BECAUSE WE SELL SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS IN COUNTRIES OTHER THAN THE UNITED STATES, WE MAY BE SUBJECT
TO POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND OTHER CONDITIONS THAT COULD RESULT IN REDUCED SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND
WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

9 

Sales to customers outside the U.S. has historically accounted for the vast majority of our
revenue. Accordingly, we are subject to political, economic and other conditions affecting
countries or jurisdictions other than the U.S., including the Middle East, Europe and Asia. Any
interruption or curtailment of trade between the countries in which we operate and their present
trading partners, change in exchange rates, significant shift in trade policies or a significant
downturn in the political, economic or financial condition of these countries could cause demand
for and sales of our products to decrease, cause disruption of our supply channels or otherwise
disrupt our operations, cause our costs of doing business to increase, or subject us to increased
regulation including future import and export restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our
business.

OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IS IMPORTANT TO US AND WE RISK LOSS OF A VALUABLE ASSET IF WE CANNOT
ADEQUATELY PROTECT IT.

We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and contractual
obligations to protect our technology. We cannot guarantee that these and other intellectual
property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or
that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent
or superior to ours. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect
intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. If we
are unable to adequately protect our proprietary information and technology, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON KEY PERSONNEL WHO WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO REPLACE AND WHOSE LOSS COULD IMPEDE
OUR DEVELOPMENT.

We are highly dependent on key personnel to manage our businesses, and their knowledge of
business, management skills and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. The loss of key
employees could limit or delay our ability to develop new products and adapt existing products to
our customers  evolving requirements and would also result in lost sales and diversion of
management resources. Because of competition for additional qualified personnel, we may not be
able to recruit or retain necessary personnel, which could impede development or sales of our
products. Our growth depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced
employees. There is substantial competition for experienced engineering, technical, financial,
sales and marketing personnel in our industry. If we are unable to retain our existing key
personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may, from time to time,
experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services
for our customers.

OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE CONTRACTING OR FISCAL
POLICIES OF THE U.S. FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

We have begun to derive substantial revenues from contracts with the U.S. federal government
and we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our
successful participation in U.S. federal government contract programs. Accordingly, changes in
U.S. federal government contracting policies could directly affect our financial performance.
Among the factors that could materially adversely affect our U.S. federal government contracting
business are:

budgetary constraints affecting U.S. federal government spending generally, or specific
departments or agencies in particular, and changes in fiscal policies or available funding; 

changes in U.S. federal government programs or requirements; 

the adoption of new laws or regulations; 

technological developments; 

U.S. federal governmental shutdowns and other potential delays in the government appropriations process; 

delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment officers due to problems
with, or upgrades to, government information systems, or for other reasons; 

competition and consolidation in the relevant industries; and 

general economic conditions. 

These or other factors could cause U.S. federal governmental agencies to reduce their
purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or not to exercise
options to renew contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and operating results.

Our government contracts may be terminated at any time prior to their completion, and if we do
not replace them, our operating results may be harmed.

We derive revenues from government contracts that typically are awarded through competitive
processes and span one or more base years and one or more option years. Government agencies
generally have the right not to exercise these option periods.

10 

In addition, many of our contracts contain provisions permitting a government client to terminate
the contract on short notice, with or without cause. A decision not to exercise option periods or
to terminate contracts would reduce the profitability of these contracts to us.

Upon contract expiration, if the customer requires further services of the type provided by
the contract, there is frequently a competitive re-bidding process and there can be no assurance
that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon
expiration or completion of a contract. The unexpected termination of one or more of our
significant contracts could result in significant revenue shortfalls the imposition of fines or
damages or our suspension or debarment from bidding on additional contracts could harm operating
results for those periods.

Most government contract awards are subject to protest by competitors. These protests could
also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction or
modification of the awarded contract.

OUR FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS MAY NOT BE PROFITABLE.

We provide many of our products and services through fixed-price contracts. In a fixed-price
contract, we must fully absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of
the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of sales
that we may achieve. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a
fixed-price contract or cause a loss.

ACQUISITIONS MAY HAVE ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES FOR OUR BUSINESS.

In late 2001 and during 2002, we completed the acquisitions of NSM, Titan and SeaSpace. In
2004, we acquired CMS Security Systems and in 2005, we acquired Global Microwave Systems. We will
continue to review opportunities to acquire and may acquire other businesses. However, we cannot
be sure that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition opportunities. The acquisitions that
we have completed and which we may complete in the future could result in the following, any of
which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our stock: (i) issuances of
equity securities that would dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders; (ii)
large one-time write-offs or a series of operating losses; (iii) the incurrence of debt and
contingent liabilities; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and integration of the acquired
companies; (v) diversion of management s attention from other business concerns; (vi) contractual
disputes; (vii) risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only
limited prior experience; and (viii) potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations.

POTENTIAL UNDISCLOSED LIABILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS   WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN
LIABILITIES ASSUMED IN CONNECTION WITH OUR ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

We conduct due diligence in connection with each of our acquisitions. In connection with any
of our acquisitions, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we improperly assess
in our due diligence efforts. In particular, to the extent that prior owners of any acquired
businesses or properties failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws or
regulations, or failed to fulfill their contractual obligations to the U.S. federal government or
other customers, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations
and failures and may suffer reputational harm or otherwise be adversely affected. The discovery of
any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could harm our operating results.

WE HAVE DEMANDS ON OUR CASH RESOURCES IN ADDITION TO INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS ON OUR DEBT,
INCLUDING, AMONG OTHERS, OPERATING EXPENSES. OUR LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS AND THESE SIGNIFICANT
DEMANDS ON OUR CASH RESOURCES COULD:

make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, 

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to
payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working
capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, 

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our lines of business, 

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have lower debt
service obligations and significantly greater operating and financing flexibility, 

limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants applicable to our
indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, 

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and 

11 

result in an event of default upon a failure to comply with financial covenants
contained in any existing credit facilities which, if not cured or waived, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

Should any significant combination of these risks materialize, we could run out of cash
as early as Q1 of 2007. 

Our ability to pay interest on and repay our long-term debt and to satisfy our other
liabilities will depend upon future operating performance and our ability to refinance our debt as
it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by
prevailing economic conditions at that time and financial, business and other factors, many of
which are beyond our control.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO TIMELY REPAY OUR OUTSTANDING INDEBTEDNESS.

We recently issued $30 million of convertible notes. We also intend to obtain a senior credit
facility. If we encounter unexpected setbacks, we may be unable to repay these loans.

The Company may not be able to finalize any of the lines of credit described in its discussion
of Liquidity and Capital Resources. It may not receive significant
new orders from our key
customer in the Middle East nor may it be able to sufficiently trim expenses at its MECAR to
ensure a cash breakeven operation in 2007. The Company may have to continue to fund operations at
operating units that it had projected to be cash neutral to positive in late 2006 and early 2007.
VSK may not have any excess cash with which to provide a significant cash dividend. The Company
may not be able to disposition any of its core or non strategic assets.

Should any significant combination of these risks materialize, the Company could
run out of cash as early as Q1 of 2007.

WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL ON TERMS UNFAVORABLE TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS.

Based on our current level of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations,
together with amounts we expect to be able to borrow under our senior secured credit facility,
will be adequate to meet our anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service
requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we do not have complete control over our future
performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and
other factors affecting the defense and security industries. Further, our acquisition strategy
will likely require additional equity or debt financings. Such financings could also be required
to support our traditional and recently acquired operating units. There is no assurance that we
will be able to obtain such financings to fuel our growth strategy and support our existing
businesses.

OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE INSUFFICIENT TO PAY FOR OUR INCREASED OVERHEAD.

We have experienced increased overhead costs and if we are successful in continuing to acquire
additional companies we expect our overhead costs to further increase. There can be no assurance
that our operating units will generate sufficient excess cash flow to support these increased
overhead costs.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE DEFENSE AND
SECURITY SECTORS AGAINST COMPETITORS WITH GREATER RESOURCES.

The defense and security industries are highly competitive. We face substantial competition
throughout the world. We believe that to remain competitive, we will require significant financial
resources in order to develop new products, offer a broader range of products and invest in
research and development. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially
greater financial resources, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, customer service
capabilities and greater name recognition. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the
design and performance of their current products and processes and to introduce new products and
processes with improved performance characteristics.

OUR EMPLOYEES MAY ENGAGE IN IMPROPER ACTIVITIES WITH ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES TO OUR BUSINESS.

As with other government and other contractors, we are faced with the possibility that our
employees may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities that may have adverse
consequences to our prospects and results of operations. Misconduct by employees could include
failures to comply with U.S. federal government regulations, violation of requirements concerning
the protection of classified information, improper labor and cost charging to contracts and
misappropriation of government or third party property and information. The occurrence of any such
employee activities could result in our
suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. federal government, as well as, the
imposition of fines and penalties which would cause material harm to our business.

12 

IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN THE NECESSARY SECURITY CLEARANCES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PERFORM CLASSIFIED
WORK FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND OUR REVENUES MAY SUFFER.

Certain U.S. government contracts require our facilities and some of our employees, to
maintain security clearances. If we lose or are unable to obtain required security clearances, the
client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to
the extent we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a
particular contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which, if not
replaced with revenue from other contracts, could seriously harm our operating results.

CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS, ESPECIALLY IN THE EUROPEAN EURO, MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS.

The exchange rates for local currencies in countries where we operate may fluctuate in
relation to the U.S. Dollar. In recent years, this has allowed us to report increased earnings in
U.S. Dollars but a future strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro would result in
decreased reported earnings which would have a negative effect on our stock price.

SINCE WE DO NOT INTEND TO DECLARE DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, THE
RETURN ON YOUR INVESTMENT WILL DEPEND UPON APPRECIATION OF THE MARKET PRICE OF YOUR SHARES.

We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock. Our board of directors does not
currently intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but intends to retain all
earnings, if any, for use in our business operations and for expansion of our portfolio of defense
and security businesses. As a result, the return on your investment will depend upon any
appreciation in the market price of our common stock.

THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN VOLATILE.

The
price of our common stock is volatile. From January 1, 2006 to
September 29, 2006, the
closing price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $23.45 to a low of $16.45. The
volatile fluctuations of the market price are based on (1) the number of shares we may be required
to issue in the future, compared to the market demand for our shares; (2) our performance and
meeting expectations of our performance, including the development and commercialization of our
products and proposed products; (3) market conditions for companies in the small capitalization
sectors; and (4) general economic and market conditions.

STOCKHOLDERS WILL EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT DILUTION FROM OUR SALE OF CONVERTIBLE NOTES AND WARRANTS.

In March 2006, the Company completed a debt offering and issued $30 million in convertible
with an exercise price of $26.46 per share for a total potential conversion of approximately
1,134,000 shares. In addition, 226,800 warrants were issued with the debt offering. If all of the
warrants are exercised and the debt is fully converted to Allied stock, current stockholders will
experience a significant dilution in their ownership of the Company.

THE PRICE OF OUR SHARES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE PUBLIC SALE OF A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF THE
SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE.

All outstanding shares of our common stock are freely transferable or transferable under Rule
144. A significant number of additional shares may be issued upon conversion of the notes and
exercise of the warrants. Sales of large amounts of common stock in the public market could
materially adversely affect the share price. Such sales also may inhibit our ability to obtain
future equity related financing on acceptable terms.

BECAUSE OF THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT AND  ANTI-TAKEOVER  PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
AND BYLAWS, A THIRD PARTY MAY BE DISCOURAGED FROM MAKING A TAKEOVER OFFER WHICH COULD BE BENEFICIAL
TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS.

On June 6, 2001, we adopted a revised shareholder rights plan. The effect of this rights plan
and of certain provisions of our Amended and restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and
restated By-Laws, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could
delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or replacing members of our board of directors,
even if the acquisition or the replacements would be beneficial to our stockholders. These factors
could also reduce the
price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of the common stock and result in
the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions.

13 

On June 6 2006, the Board of Directors modified the Company s shareholder rights plan to
increase the  acquiring person  threshold from 15% to 20%.

BECAUSE OF LIKELY FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CLASS ACTION
LITIGATION THAT COULD DISTRACT MANAGEMENT AND RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL COSTS.

In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies
following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may be the target of
similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and
divert management s attention and resources from our operations and sales of our products, which
would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005, ALLIED HAD MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN ITS INTERNAL CONTROLS, AND ITS INTERNAL
CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING WAS NOT EFFECTIVE AS OF THAT DATE. IF ALLIED FAILS TO MAINTAIN AN
EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS, IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE TIMELY AND ACCURATE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS.

As more fully described in Item 9A, the Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making this
assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control   Integrated Framework. As a result of management s
assessment, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, Allied did not maintain
effective internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, our auditor, BDO Seidman LLP,
issued a disclaimer of opinion with regards to Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005.

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has defined a material weakness as a control
deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood
that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected.
Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report
contains material errors.

We have identified control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, and
we are implementing new or revised controls to address these matters. The steps we have taken
and are taking to address the material weaknesses may not be effective, however. Any failure to
effectively address control deficiencies or implement required new or improved controls, or
difficulties encountered in their implementation, could limit our ability to obtain financing, harm
our reputation, disrupt our ability to process key components of our result of operations and
financial condition timely and accurately and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations
under SEC rules and our various debt arrangements. Any failure to remediate the material weakness
or significant deficiencies identified in our evaluation of our internal controls could preclude
our management from determining our internal control over financial reporting is effective or,
otherwise, from issuing in a timely manner its management report in the future.

14 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

Allied s principal executive offices are located in Vienna, Virginia, where it leases
approximately 3,900 square feet of office space. The lease expires in February 2013. The following
table shows the principal properties of Allied s subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005:

(1) 
       
     MECAR s principal factory is located approximately 25 miles south of Brussels near Nivelles,
Belgium. The factory principally consists of a manufacturing and administrative complex which
was occupied by MECAR in 1989. The manufacturing area is approximately 112,000 square feet
and the administration facility is approximately 28,000 square feet. There are a number of
older buildings on the property that are still used in conjunction with the new complex. A
small test firing range is maintained on this property. MECAR also previously owned 600 acres
in the vicinity of the Village of Marche in the Ardennes region of Belgium, which was
previously used as a test range. MECAR ceased its use of the Ardennes firing range in 2001,
and sold the property at the end of 2005. MECAR is now utilizing other test ranges, including
a test range owned by the Belgian Army, although it is also exploring the prospects of
securing the use of a new test range. Throughout 2005, MECAR operated using one full and two
partial shifts. MECAR is currently not operating near its productive capacity. 

(2) 
       
     VSK operates from owned facilities throughout Belgium, as well as a leased facility in
California. Such facilities are currently operating at approximately 85% of productive
capacity. 

(3) 
       
     NSM operates from leased office, production and warehouse facilities in Spring Valley,
California. In 2004, NSM expanded to a second warehouse facility in close proximity to its
original facility providing an additional 10,000 square feet. The original facility is leased
on a month to month basis while the additional 10,000 square feet are leased through June 30,
2008. 

(4) 
       
     SeaSpace operates from leased office, production and warehouse facilities in Poway, CA. The
lease expires in June, 2009 and the facility is currently operating at approximately 70% of
productive capacity. In 2004, SeaSpace expanded its production and warehouse facilities in
close proximity to its original facility providing an additional 10,400 square feet at year
end. 

(5) 
       
     Global Microwave Systems operates from leased facilities in Carlsbad, CA. The office lease
expires October 2007. 

(6) 
       
     Titan operates from a facility in Marshall, TX that is 30% dedicated to office space and 70%
to production. Titan also leases an additional 3,800 sq feet of production space for which
the lease will not be renewed after the first quarter of 2006. . Included with the Titan
lease numbers is the 503 square feet of office space Allied Technology, LLC leases on the
Texas Tech University campus. The facilities at Titan have been sized in anticipation of
future period revenue growth and it is not currently operating at its productive capacity 

(7) 
       
     MECAR USA operates from an office and manufacturing facility in Marshall, Texas, constructed
in 2005 with assistance from the local development authority. In addition to the
manufacturing facility, MECAR USA leased 12,500 square feet of warehouse space in 2005 and
increased that to 49,000 square feet in January 2006. Titan relocated its operations to share
this facility with MECAR USA and Allied Technology, LLC also shares 500 square feet of office
space in the facility. The facilities at MECAR USA have been sized in anticipation of future
period revenue growth and it is not currently operating at its productive capacity. 

The above facilities are considered to be in good operating condition, adequate for present use,
and have sufficient plant capacity to meet current and anticipated operating requirements.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation
incidental to Allied s business, to which Allied or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which
any of their property is subject. See Note O to Allied s consolidated financial statements for a
description of one pending suit against VSK.

15 

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2005,
through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.

PART II 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR STOCK, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Market Information.  Allied s Common Stock has been listed for trading on the American Stock
Exchange ( AMEX ) since September 15, 1992. Its AMEX trading symbol is ADG. Its media listing is
under the symbol Allied Defense. The table below shows the high and low sales prices of Allied s
Common Stock during 2005 and 2004 (as reported by AMEX):

Stockholders.  The number of holders of record of the Common Stock at September 22, 2006 was
907.

Dividends.  Allied paid a 5% stock dividend in November 1992 to holders of record of its
Common Stock on October 15, 1992. Cash was paid in lieu of the issuance of fractional shares.
There have been no subsequent dividends declared or paid by Allied. The payment of dividends is
within the discretion of Allied s Board of Directors and any decision to pay dividends in the
future will depend upon an evaluation of a number of factors, including earnings, capital
requirements, operating and financial condition, and any contractual limitation then in effect. In
this regard, MECAR s bank syndicate agreement requires the maintenance by MECAR of minimum
financial covenants, which effectively restricts the amount of dividends we may pay from MECAR s
assets.

Stock Issuances.  On November 14, 2005 (with an effective date of November 1, 2005), Allied
acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Global Microwave Systems in exchange for
consideration which included 118,072 shares of unregistered stock. Such shares were exempt from
registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933.

Equity Compensation Plan Information.  The following table provides information as of December
31, 2005 about the Company s Common Stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options and
rights under all of the Company s existing equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2005,
including the 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, the 1997 Incentive Stock Plan and the 1992 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (all of which have been approved by the Company s stockholders), as well as rights to
acquire shares of the Company s Common Stock granted to unaffiliated institutional investors.

16 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The selected consolidated financial data below have been derived from our audited financial
statements. You should read the following table in conjunction with Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements
and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. The historical results
presented below are not indicative of any future results. The following selected financial data
relates to Allied s consolidated financial position and results of operations:

(1)  
       
     The Consolidated Statements of Operations and the Consolidated Cash Flows for 2004,
2003 and 2002 have been restated to reflect adjustments that are described in Note A of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(2)  
       
     Long-term obligations include the Patriot facility of $13,539 which was reclassed
from Current to Long-term based on pay off that occurred in March of 2006. 

(3)  
       
     In 2005 MECAR changed its basis for applying percentage
of completion accounting from total direct cost to direct labor cost. The
charge in 2005 for the cumulative effect of the accounting change was
$5,293, net of tax of $2,726. 

2005 activity reflects the acquisition of Global Microwave Systems 
2004 activity reflects the acquisition of CMS Security Systems 
2002 activity reflects the acquisitions of NSM, Titan and SeaSpace.

17 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS (amounts in thousands of dollars, other than share data) 

Overview  

Allied is a strategic portfolio of defense and security businesses, with presence in worldwide
markets, offering both government and commercial customers leading edge products and services. In
late 2005, Allied changed the composition of its business structure from the four segments used for
management and reporting purposes in prior years into two primary operating segments in order to
more accurately reflect the strategic focus of the Company. In conformity with SFAS No. 131,
 Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information  ( SFAS 131 ), the Company s
segment information is presented on the basis that management uses in evaluating its performance.
As required under SFAS 131, the Company has restated all prior period segment information to be
consistent with the new segment reporting. The new segments are Ammunition   Weapons Effects,
Electronic Security and the renamed Other (formerly Environmental Safety   Security).

The Company reviewed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 and in accordance
with its provisions has established two primary operating segments for financial reporting purposes:
Ammunition and Weapons Effects (AWE) and Electronic Security (ES). It will report the operations
of its SeaSpace operating unit as Other. Formerly SeaSpace was reported as the Environmental
Safety and Security (ESS) segment. SeaSpace was previously the only operating unit in the ESS
segment. Headquarters expenses will be reported separately on the segment reporting schedules.
The AWE segment provides conventional ammunition, battlefield effects simulators and other training
devices to the U.S. military and 30 countries worldwide, dealing with defense departments or
ministries of defense in US/NATO approved sovereign entities. The ES segment encompasses a wide
range of fixed and deployable systems and equipment used to address today s security and
surveillance requirements in the U.S. and internationally. The ES segment markets its products to
governments, law enforcement, and commercial security personnel. In addition to having these
distinct differences in client base and application of products, the production processes of the
segments are distinct. The AWE segment is generally more related to manufacturing operations while
the ES segment is more focused on the assembly, integration, test and deployment of components
manufactured by other suppliers.

Ammunition   Weapons Effects  segment consists of MECAR, located in
Belgium, MECAR USA, located in Marshall, TX, and Titan, located in
Marshall, TX. MECAR develops and produces medium caliber, tank,
mortar and other ammunition. MECAR USA became operational in late
2005 and will pursue contracts from U.S. and foreign governments
for ammunition and pyrotechnics devices with a focus on the 105MM
market. Titan designs, manufactures and sells battlefield effects
simulators, minor pyrotechnics and other training devices. Titan
and Mecar USA are co-located at the same facilty, are operated
under a unified management team, share production facilities and
employees and have a fully integrated back office and support
service organization. MECAR, MECAR USA and Titan have similar
products and services, similar production processes, common
customers, similar methods to sell and distribute their products
and operate in a similar regulatory environment 

Electronic Security  segment consists of VSK, located in Belgium
and California and NSM and Global Microwave Systems located near
San Diego, California. VSK consists of VSK Electronics N.V.,
which manufactures access control, intrusion protection, fire
detection and video systems; T l  Technique G n rale S.A., which
installs security systems; Intelligent Data Capturing Systems
N.V., which manufacturers integrated video systems; VIGITEC S.A.,
which installs networked video surveillance systems; and CMS
Security Systems which manufactures access control systems. NSM
designs, manufactures, installs and services
industrial and law enforcement surveillance products and integrated systems for
the law enforcement community, agencies of the Department of Homeland Security
and the Department of Defense. GMS designs and manufactures miniature and
sub-miniature FM and digital transmitters, receivers, and related equipment for
investigative, surveillance, and security applications, and live TV
news/sports/entertainment coverage. 

The Other  segment consists of SeaSpace located near
San Diego, CA. It designs, manufactures, distributes
and services weather and environmental satellite
ground reception systems, and manufactures and
markets a line of antenna systems. 

Allied, the parent Company, provides management, business development and related services to
its subsidiaries and has no operating activities.

Allied
and its subsidiaries had a net loss of $38,920 ($6.76 per share diluted) in 2005
compared to net earnings of $1,370 ($0.24 per share diluted) in 2004 and net earnings of $2,718
($0.48 per share diluted) in 2003. The 2005 net loss before the cumulative effect of a change in
the application of an accounting principle was $33,627 ($5.84 per share diluted).

Allied has focused on acquiring and establishing companies as part of its growth strategy. In
the mid 1990 s Allied acquired VSK to supplement its base business comprised of MECAR. The
Company continued its diversification efforts in late 2001 and into 2002 with the acquisition of
NSM, Titan and SeaSpace. In mid 2004 VSK acquired CMS Security Systems (CMS) with the goal
of using it as a vehicle to sell VSK Group products in the US security market. In late 2005 the
Company

18 

commenced operations at MECAR USA , which was organized to transfer the knowledge and
capabilities of MECAR to the US to enable the Company to pursue ammunition and related
opportunities in the US market. In late 2005 the Company also acquired Global Microwave Systems
(GMS) to enhance the Company s competitiveness in the electronic security market segment as well as
to leverage a suite of technologies   together with VSK, CMS and
NSM   to deliver larger and more
complex security solutions.

Restatements of Financial Results  

The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004 and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003
have been restated. The restatement provided in this Form 10-K corrects amounts previously
reported in Allied s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004 and the related statements of
operations, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 2004 for certain errors related to incorrect currency rates used to
translate MECAR, S.A. s U. S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities into its functional
currency, and for the grant of stock options to certain officers and directors in 2002 for which
the actual accounting measurement date was after the measurement dates used by the Company to
record such awards.

The determination to restate the consolidated financial statements was approved by Allied s
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of Allied s senior management.

In October 2005, the Company filed an amended 2004 Form 10-K and an amended Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2005 related to the Company s failure to comply with the guidelines of FAS
133 regarding accounting treatment of its foreign currency hedge contracts at its Belgian
subsidiary, MECAR, and the subsequent valuation of that subsidiary s assets and liabilities
resulting from foreign currency transactions once the subsidiary failed to qualify for hedge
accounting.

In the periods 2002 through 2005, as the volume of U.S. dollar sales contracts grew, MECAR
entered into foreign currency hedge contracts to control the subsidiary s exposure to currency risk
from fluctuations in the U.S. dollar as compared to the Euro, its functional currency. Management
and the audit committee determined that an additional restatement was necessary to correct foreign
currency transaction and translation errors and correct certain reclassifications that were made in
the previously reported amounts that were either incomplete or inaccurate.

In addition to the correction of previously reported amounts described above, this restatement
also provides for the correction of compensation expense recorded in the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2004. In February 2002, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Allied
granted stock option awards at the then
market price, subject to subsequent approval by the stockholders of an amendment to the Company s
stock plan that would increase the number of shares available under that plan. The stockholders
approved the amendment to the plan in June 2002. The Company incorrectly used the February 2002
award date as the measurement date for the options granted rather than the stockholder approval
date in June 2002. The options granted were for 220,000 shares of common stock at an exercise
price of $16.40 per share. The total compensation expense associated with this change in
measurement date was $1,298 that should have been recognized over the vesting period of thirty-four
months subsequent to the measurement date. Based on the vesting period of the options, an increase
to compensation expense of $451 and $433 was recognized in 2003 and 2004, respectively.

The restatement also corrected the classification of MECAR s bank overdraft facility from an
operating activity for cash flow purposes to financing activity. Prior to the restatement, the
balance of the bank overdraft facility was included in accounts payable. The balance of the bank
overdraft facility at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $15,086 and $5,553, respectively.
The financing activity from a cash flow perspective was $9,534, $1,293 and $(273) of cash
generated in 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively.

A summary of the impact of this restatement is provided below. The reader is referred to Note
A to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these matters.
The  As Previously Reported in 10-K/A  refers to previously reported in Allied s Form 10-K/A filed
in October 2005. The  Restated  information represents the correction of errors to MECAR s foreign
currency transactions and the correction of compensation expense recorded in the years 2002, 2003,
and 2004 related to accounting for stock options granted in 2002.

19 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations   
  Years Ended December 31,  

Reconciliations between the  Restated  results and the  As Previously Reported in 10-K/A  results
for 2004 and 2003 are as follows:

20 

(1) 
       
     Impact of correcting for certain errors related to incorrect exchange rates to translate
Allied s Belgium subsidiary MECAR S.A. s U.S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities into its
functional currency and other adjustments related to foreign currency transactions. 

(2) 
       
     Impact of correcting compensation expense related to the grant of stock options to certain
officers in 2002 for which the measurement date was incorrectly determined. These
options were granted in February 2002 by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
the Company, but were subject to subsequent stockholder approval which was not obtained until June
2002. 

In addition to the 2004 and 2003 annual periods being restated, the Company has restated the
quarterly results for the quarterly reporting periods in 2005 and 2004. See Note W to the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these restatements.

Cash Flow Information 

The cash flow statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to
reflect a reclassification of a bank overdraft facility from operating cash flows to financing cash
flows.

Year

Trends in Operations  

Allied reported disappointing results for 2005, which were largely driven by the Company s
Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment. MECAR concluded its approximately $130,000 Foreign Military
Sales (FMS) contract in the first quarter of 2005 and experienced lower sales activity for the
remainder of the year. MECAR anticipated receiving two contracts (totaling approximately $35,000)
that would have replaced the FMS contract concluded
earlier in the year, but received neither contract by year-end. Titan incurred a $1,674 net loss
for 2005 on approximately $1,249 in revenue as the Company recorded a tax valuation allowance for
Titan s deferred tax assets. Titan expects improved results in 2006 due to the
indefinite-delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contract received in mid-2005. MECAR USA incurred a
$586 net loss for 2005, as the business unit became operational in late 2005. Given the continued
delay of follow on orders from MECAR s traditional customer base in 2006   financial performance is
expected to be below pre 2005 historical levels. The Company expects a return of substantial
business from these customers in 2007.

Within the Electronic Security segment, VSK recorded another profitable year in 2005. The
business unit contributed $30,761 in revenue and $2,725 in net earnings, as VSK s export sales
increased from prior levels. NSM reported a $5,512 net loss in 2005 with approximately $6,357 of
revenues, principally due to the failure to receive anticipated follow-on contracts from the U.S.
Army for operations in Iraq, inventory reserves booked for obsolete and excess inventory levels and
a tax valuation allowance recorded by the Company. NSM anticipates a substantial improvement in
profitability   full year 2006 vs full year 2005. NSM also expects significant growth over the
next several years as the demand for its integrated surveillance solutions accelerates to meet
growing demands from the Department of Defense as well as the needs of national, state and local
law enforcement agencies and homeland security. GMS was aquired in November of 2005. GMS incurred
a $461 net loss for 2005, which included a first year write-off of in-process research and
development (IPRD) of $944 .

For the Other segment, SeaSpace incurred a $7,332 net loss for 2005, principally due to a
continual softening in demand for its ground station systems, the impairment of $3,060 in goodwill
and the recording of a tax valuation allowance for SeaSpace s deferred tax assets. SeaSpace
expects increased revenue from antenna system sales and improved operating results from new
management initiatives.

All business units spent considerable efforts on Sarbanes-Oxley compliance initiatives, both
in term of labor and dollars.

While 2005 was a challenging year for the Company, given the disappointing financial results,
the Company has undertaken important changes, which include the following:

Shifting its focus to two core operating segments; 

Emphasizing business development at both corporate and operating unit levels; 

Extending its planning horizon to incorporate a three year strategic plan for the Company; 

Prioritizing acquisitions to first complement its component strengths, then to focus on
market development and new market penetration; and 

Upgrading its financial systems and processes for effective and efficient operations and
to ensure regulatory compliance. 

Allied concluded 2005 with a consolidated backlog of $93,376 compared with a consolidated
backlog of $77,273 in 2004. In future periods, Allied operations will continue to be impacted by
MECAR s ability to obtain large orders on a periodic basis and Allied s ability to successfully
continue its expansion of other business.

21 

Trends in Liquidity and Capital Resources  

In 2005, Allied s liquidity deteriorated largely as a result of the losses incurred by several
of Allied s business units. In March 2006, the Company refinanced its senior debt facility (the
 Patriot Facility ) to address the liquidity issue. On March 9, 2006, Allied entered into a
Securities Purchase Agreement with several purchasers for the private placement of Senior
Subordinated Convertible Notes in the principal amount of $30,000 and 226,800 warrants (the
 Warrants ) to purchase common stock of the Company (the  Transactions ). The Notes accrue
interest at a rate of 7.5% per annum, subject to adjustment, with accrued interest payable
quarterly in arrears in cash. The interest rate of the Notes steps down to 5% once certain
registration and financial milestones are attained. The Notes mature in 2011 and are convertible
into shares of common stock of Allied at a conversion price of $26.46, subject to standard
anti-dilution provisions. The anti-dilution provisions protect the rights of the Noteholder from
future potential issuances of the Company s common stock, options, convertible securities or other
related instruments. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, Allied issued Warrants to the
Purchasers exercisable for
an aggregate of 226,800 shares of Allied common stock. The Warrants are exercisable for a term of
five years at an exercise price of $27.68 per share, subject to anti-dilution provisions similar to
those included in the Notes.

This financing enabled the Company to retire a much higher senior note (the Patriot Facility)
that was outstanding at December 31, 2005, thereby allowing the Company to retain cash that would
have otherwise been paid out in 2006 for principal and interest and eliminating the constraints on
operations imposed by the covenants of the previous facility. The Company s goal is to enhance the
strength of its balance sheet and provide flexibility to pursue its
growth strategies. As the net proceeds of this financing will likely by
expended in 2006 Company
is in discussions with a senior lender to put in place a new senior secured facility to allow for
additional liquidity and growth. That senior facility is expended to be in the range of $4,000 to
$5,000. Availability under the line would accordion up to $20,000 based on future financial
performance. In the longer term, Allied s liquidity will continue to depend on its ability to
obtain substantial orders from its traditional customers and the success of its efforts to broaden
its revenue base.

Results of Operations  

The results were affected by several significant items that are outlined below: 

Foreign exchange impact on the operations of the Company s Euro-based business units:  The results were positively
affected by the translation of the Company s European operations  Euro-based income statements into dollars at more
favorable exchange rates. All Euro-based results of operations were converted at the average 2005, 2004 and 2003
exchange rates of 1.2454, 1.2439 and 1.1321 U.S. Dollar to 1 Euro, respectively. 

Use of non-hedge accounting for the Company s foreign currency hedge transactions:  All 2003-2005 data contained in
this Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Consolidation and Results of Operation is based on the use
of non-hedge accounting. As disclosed by the Company in November 2005, the Company determined that it did not
qualify for the use of hedge accounting in 2005 due to insufficient documentation of its foreign currency hedge
transactions in addition to not qualifying in 2004 and 2003. Accordingly, all the financial data contained herein
has been prepared using non-hedge accounting for such transactions. 

Change in application of accounting principle (revenue recognition via the percentage of completion method):  In
2005, MECAR changed its methodology of applying the percentage of completion method for its revenues in an effort
to better reflect the revenue recognized during the life of a sales contract. Previously, MECAR used total direct
costs as the basis for recognizing revenue. In 2005, MECAR changed the basis for recognition to direct labor
rather than total direct costs. Accordingly, the 2005 data contained herein shows the results under the new
application method. The 2004 and 2003 results are shown under the previous application method. 

The following table sets forth, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, certain items
from Allied s consolidated statements of earnings expressed as a percentage of revenue.

22 

2005 compared to 2004 compared to 2003  

Revenues.  The Company s consolidated revenues for 2005 decreased approximately $33,979 (23%)
from 2004 due to lower production activities and reduced contracts completed in the current year in
the Ammunition   Weapons Effects, Electronic Security and the Other segment. In late 2005, Allied
changed the composition of its business structure from the four segments used for management and
reporting purposes in prior years into two primary operating segments in order to more accurately
reflect the strategic focus of the Company. The table below shows revenues of the former and new
segments for the three year period.

The Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment revenue decreased $26,397 in 2005 from 2004 levels
primarily from reduced revenues at MECAR of $26,818. MECAR concluded work on the approximately
$130,000 Foreign Military Sales (FMS) contract in the first quarter of 2005, and did not receive
two substantial contracts, valued at $35,000, that were expected in 2005. Lower revenue at MECAR
was only marginally offset by increases at Titan and MECAR USA of $336 and $85, respectively. On
April 21, 2005, Titan was awarded a firm-fixed price, indefinite-delivery/indefinite quantity
(IDIQ) contract for the procurement of approximately 2,500 launchers and 10,000,000 cartridges and
associated support for the Battlefield Effects Simulator (BES) training system for the U.S. Army.
The contract will provide BES with support for target systems for Digital Multi-Purpose Range
Complexes, Digital Multi-Purpose Training Range, and Battlefield Area Complex. Delivery orders
totaling $4.8 million have been received under the contract through the end of the second quarter
of 2006. The Titan IDIQ contract represents the Department of Defense estimate of the amount that
could be spent by all branches of service on training and simulation products provided by Titan
over a five to eight year period.

23 

MECAR USA commenced operations in late 2005 and received its first contract valued at approximately
$1,000. The orders call for MECAR USA to load, assemble, and pack 105mm High Explosive Plastic -
Training Practice   Tracer (HEP-TP-T) ammunition for the U.S. Army s Stryker program.

Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment revenues decreased in 2004 from 2003 levels due to
reduced revenues at MECAR ($19,197) and Titan ($416). The decrease in revenue at MECAR stemmed
from reduced activity on the FMS contract. Titan  revenue decrease resulted from lack of safety
certification for its principal product. Titan  revenue was largely comprised of cartridge sales
for previously sold simulators and new E-pyro products used for military and law enforcement
training.

Electronic Security segment revenue decreased in 2005 from 2004 levels primarily from reduced
revenues at NSM of $9,790. NSM did not receive several large contracts that were expected in 2005.
These decreases were offset by increases at VSK and GMS. The increase at VSK of $936 was
principally the result of continued expansion of its export sales via its European distribution
network. In addition, GMS was acquired in November 2005 and generated $1,683 of revenue.

Electronic Security segment revenue increased in 2004 over 2003 levels. The increase of
$2,592 at VSK is principally the result of continued expansion of its export sales via its European
distribution network. NSM s business improved by $10,078 due to receipt of additional U.S.
government orders in 2004.

Other segment revenues declined by $411 and $630 from the previous two years as it continued
to face competitive pressures.

Cost of Sales.  Cost of sales (COS) as a percentage of revenue was 84%, 72% and 75% in 2005,
2004 and 2003 respectively (see table above). The increase in COS percentage from 2004 to 2005 was
driven by a year to year decline in MECAR sales volumes and relatively fixed year to year COS
expenses. MECAR USA and Titan COS as a percentage of revenue actually improved from 2004 to 2005,
but not enough to offset the unfavorable movement at MECAR COS within Electronic Security as a
percentage of sales increased from 2005 to 2004 due to a significant decline in US based sales at
NSM and a lack of a corresponding decrease in expenses partly offset by the acquisition of GMS in
November of 2005. VSK sales increased slightly from 2004 to 2005. VSK COS grew at a faster pace
than sales   resulting in less favorable performance. SeaSpace had an increase in COS as a
percentage of sales   although the increase was not large enough to impact the consolidated
results.

From 2003
to 2004 COS declined as a percent of revenue led by favorable trends at MECAR, MECAR
USA, Titan, NSM and at SeaSpace. VSK trends in COS were generally flat 2003 to 2004.

Overall many of ADG s segments operate within a relatively fixed cost environment. Sales declines
on a year to year basis below these fixed costs levels can have an unfavorable impact on
profitability. The Company is focused on reducing these breakeven
points wherever it can   on
both a tactical and strategic level. The Company is also investing in business development and
sales and marketing programs to ensure sales stay well above the break even levels.

Selling and Administrative Expenses   .    Selling and Administrative (SA) expenses as a
percentage of sales were 33%, 20% and 16% for 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. Within AWE SA
expenses increased at MECAR, MECAR USA and Titan. After MECAR sales failed to materialize in 2004
SA levels were cut back to preserve profitability, but not enough to offset the rapid decline in
sales over that period. MECAR USA and Titan costs increased as new facilities and staffing came
on line in Marshall, TX. Within the ES segment VSK SA costs increased as a constant percentage of
sales. As NSM sales fell from 2004 to 2005, SA costs remained
relatively flat   adversely
impacting the percentage comparison. Allied headquarters cost also grew during the same period
from approximately $9,806, $6,989 and $5,477 for 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. These increases
were drive by higher staffing, compliance and audit costs. The Company is focused on reducing
administrative costs across the board. It is consolidating back
office functions within the operating
segments and is focused on significant reductions in compliance and audit costs by improving
internal staffing levels and upgrading financial and manufacturing control systems in the US and
Belgium operations.

Research and Development.  Research and development costs as a percentage of sales was 6%, 5%
and 3% for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The total expense for research and
development was $7,190 in 2005 as compared to $6,695 in 2004 and $4,532 in 2003. The general
increase from 2003 stemmed from increased expenditures in the Electronic Security and Other segment
related to continued product development. Included in the research and development costs for 2005
is expense of $944 related to in process research and development (IPRD) costs that were part of
the GMS acquisition price that was written off in 2005. The total dollar outlays for research and
development at MECAR, VSK, NSM and SeaSpace are expected to remain at the same level for the coming
year.

24 

Goodwill impairment.  As required by SFAS No. 142, the Company performs a review of goodwill
in the fourth quarter of each year based on third quarter year to date results or earlier if an
indicator of potential impairment of goodwill exists. During 2005, the Company determined that the
carrying amount of goodwill related to SeaSpace exceeded its fair value, which was estimated based
on the present value of expected future cash inflows and the market capitalization of the Company
allocated on a component level to SeaSpace. In 2005, the Company recorded goodwill impairment of
$3,060 related to SeaSpace. This impairment resulted from competition for SeaSpace s products and
inability to meet historical and current projections.

Interest Income.  Interest income increased steadily between 2003 and 2005. Income earned on
interest bearing accounts throughout the Company has been affected by the higher interest rates
despite overall lower cash levels at year end.

Interest expense.  Interest expense increased in 2005 over 2004 due principally to the
interest and the amortization of debt issue costs on the 11.5% senior debt facility. In late
2005, management undertook to refinance the senior debt facility, which was completed in March
2006. In contrast, interest expense decreased in 2004 from 2003 levels due principally to $5,250
of principal payments on a convertible debenture in 2003 that were not in place in 2004.

Other
  Net.  Other-Net expense increased in 2005 from 2004 primarily from the currency
fluctuations. In particular, MECAR incurred higher currency losses ($2,420) in 2005. This was
offset by an approximate $400 gain on the sale of MECAR s Ardenne firing range and related land.
Other-Net in 2004 was expense of $511 compared to expense of $484 in 2003.

Pre-Tax Profit.  In late 2005, Allied changed the composition of its business structure from
the four segments used for management and reporting purposes in prior years into two primary
operating segments in order to more accurately reflect the strategic focus of the Company. The
table below shows the pre-tax profit (loss) before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
estimate of the former and new segments for the two year period.

Within the Ammunition and Weapons Effect segment, MECAR incurred a substantial loss in 2005.
While a significant portion of the decrease was expected due to the lack of a large high-margin
contract in MECAR s backlog and the overall lower sales volume at MECAR, the changes noted above
were also affected by the voluntary change in revenue recognition policy in 2005 that represented
an increased loss of approximately $1,079.

Electronic Security segment incurred a loss in 2005 principally due to decreased business
activity at NSM, largely from U.S. government contracts. NSM s performance suffered due to delays
in award of orders. VSK s pre-tax profit was materially consistent between 2005, 2004 and 2003.
The addition of GMS in November 2005 and the write off of in-process research and development costs
in the fourth quarter of 2005 of $944 also impacted the loss for the current period.

Other segment loss rose sharply in 2005 predominantly form the write down of Goodwill at
SeaSpace.

25 

Corporate segment loss increased in 2005 and 2004 due to Sarbanes Oxley implementation costs
and audit costs particularly related to the Company s accounting restatements at the Corporate
business unit. Note that Corporate segment loss primarily represents the difference between
intercompany management fees and expenses of the parent Company.

Income Taxes-Expense (Benefit).  The effective income tax rates in 2005, 2004, and 2003 were
3% 18% and 63%, respectively. The decreased rate for 2005 is attributed to significant losses with the U.S. operations for which the Company has recorded tax valuation allowances. The decrease in the 2004 tax
rate from the 2003 tax rate is attributed to increased utilization of foreign tax credits to reduce
U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. The 2003 tax rate includes the impact of foreign dividends
received in the U.S. for which the related tax credits could not be fully utilized.

Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change (net of income taxes).  In late 2005, MECAR changed its
methodology for applying the percentage of completion in an effort to better reflect revenue
recognized over the life of its sales contracts. Previously, MECAR used total direct costs as the
basis for recognizing revenue, but subsequently elected to use only direct labor as the basis of
recognition. The cumulative effect of the accounting change was $5,293, net of income taxes. See
further discussion in Note C.

Net Earnings (Loss   Before the Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle).  The
Company incurred a net loss in 2005 compared to net earnings in 2004 and 2003. The winding down of
MECAR s FMS contract and the lack of replacement contracts was the principal cause of the 2005 net
loss. In addition to the reduction of contracts at MECAR, the change in methodology for revenue
recognition at MECAR resulted in an additional loss of $712, net of taxes, in 2005. This increased
loss was offset by the net income at VSK. Losses incurred by Allied s other domestic subsidiaries
continued. The net earnings for 2004 decreased substantially from 2003 levels. The decrease was
the result of gains recognized in 2003 on derivative contracts at MECAR. There was also some
decrease as a result of 2004 losses incurred by the Company s U.S. subsidiaries.

Backlog.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company s backlog was $93,376 compared to $77,273 at
December 31, 2004. The 2005 and 2004 amounts included unfunded portions from an indefinite
delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) federal contract awarded to NSM. As previously noted, in 2005,
Allied changed the composition of its business structure from the four segments used for management
and reporting purposes in prior years into two primary operating segments in order to more
accurately reflect the strategic focus of the Company. The table below shows the backlog of the
former and new segments for the three year period.

26 

The 2005 increase in the backlog for the Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment is attributable
to increases at MECAR ($16,789), Titan ($2,294) and the addition of MECAR USA ($910). Titan 
backlog reflects the orders under the IDIQ contract awarded in April 2005. MECAR USA became
operational in late 2005 and received its first contract valued at approximately $1,000. Much of
the increase in MECAR s backlog is attributable to the change in the methodology of applying the
percentage of completion method. This change had the effect of shifting some amounts that would
have been recognized as revenue in 2005 into the backlog at year end. Excluding the impact of the
change in percentage of completion methodology, the MECAR backlog would have had a slight decrease
($2,550) due to the conclusion of work on the FMS multi-year contract awarded in February 2002, as
well as the depreciation of the Euro during the year. In addition to meeting the ammunition needs
of its traditional customers, MECAR has undertaken a customer diversification effort in the past
few years, which has contributed to a majority of its new orders for 2004 and 2005.

Electronic Security backlog decreased in 2005 a result of the decline in the NSM backlog
($2,294), which is attributable to fewer new orders and completion of previously funded and
unfunded contracts. In addition, the backlog for VSK declined by $3,174, which is attributable to
the completion of several contracts, as well as the depreciation of the Euro during the year.
These decreases were offset by an increase from the acquisition of GMS ($908). Electronic
Security s 2005 and 2004 backlogs include unfunded portions of $8,330 and $9,445, respectively,
from an IDIQ federal contract.

Other segment backlog increased by $671 in 2005; otherwise, it has remained relatively
constant over the two year period presented.

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

The Company
incurred a net loss of $38,920 and had net cash used from
operations of $22,229 in
2005. ADG had a December 31, 2005
balance of cash and equivalents of $7,803 and restricted cash of
$7,428. The Company closed a
$30,000 convertible debt facility in March 2006. Net proceeds were $28,000. $15,200 was used to
retire existing debt   including the Patriot facility. The remaining $12,800 was available to be
used in 2006 to fund working capital needs. As of June 30, 2006
the Company had $13,700 of (unaudited) cash
and equivalents and $9,300 (unaudited) of restricted cash.

As described in greater detail below, the Company expects to expend nearly all of the net
proceeds from the convertible note financing before December 31, 2006 and will likely explore other sources
of additional liquidity pending the anticipated return of substantial business from MECAR s
traditional customer base.

The Company expects positive cash flows to continue from US dollar based and Euro based
sources within the Electronic Security (ES) Segment. Euro based Ammunition and Weapons Effects
(AWE) cash flow should be neutral
through year end, turning positive in 2007 assuming that significant new orders are received from a
key customer in the Middle East. Should those orders not materialize
by early 2007 further cost
restructuring will be necessary to ensure a cash breakeven operation in 2007. Contingency plans
are being evaluated and pre-positioned now should the current delays continue. The US dollar
based AWE operations are being consolidated and downsized to lower the cash break even point.
Capital projects can be delayed in early 2007 if cash resources are constrained. The delay of
these projects, if necessary, should not have a negative impact on the baseline revenues projected
in 2007.

At the headquarters level the Company believes that the audit costs related to the restatement
incurred in the first three quarters of 2006 will not be recurring in 2007. The
Company has invested in a financial and manufacturing ERP system for all of its US subsidiaries and
enhanced its headquarters financial staff. These improvements should help the Company
significantly reduce its compliance and audit costs starting in 2007. The Company has
also invested in video conferencing facilities to link headquarters with all of the subsidiary
locations, which should reduce travel costs from 2006 to 2007.

The Company is evaluating a variety of options to increase its liquidity in the fourth quarter
of 2006 and into early 2007:

The Company intends to have in place, and is in the process of negotiating, a domestic
line of credit by year end that will provide $4,000 to $5,000 of immediate liquidity with a
provision to accordion up to $20,000 based on financial performance in subsequent periods. 

The Company is exploring possible asset backed financing from local banks at its US
based AWE facilities that would be earmarked for capital improvement   buildings and/or
equipment   at that site. 

The Company is evaluating the disposition of certain non strategic assets. 

The Company has the option of issuing dividends of excess cash from its Euro based ES
operations at year end. 

The Company may further consolidate its California operations to further reduce
operating expenses. 

Balance Sheet.  All items on the Company s December 31, 2005 consolidated balance sheet were
affected by the decreased value of the Euro in 2005. All Euro-based activity was converted at the
December 31, 2005 and 2004 closing exchange rate of 1.1844 and 1.3644 U.S. Dollar to 1 Euro,
respectively.

27 

Historically, the Company s positive cash flow from operations and available credit facilities
have provided adequate liquidity and working capital to fully fund the Company s operational needs.
Working capital, which includes restricted cash, was $36,362 at December 31, 2005, which compares
to $78,963 at December 31, 2004. Working capital decreased mainly as a result of the loss from
operations in 2005.

Cash decreased as a result of the net loss from operations and repayment of certain debt
obligations offset by the increase in current liabilities. Restricted cash decreased based on the
requirements of certain contracts at MECAR.

Accounts receivable decreased due to lower shipments in the fourth quarter 2005 versus the
fourth quarter 2004. Costs and accrued earnings on uncompleted contracts decreased from year end
2004 primarily as a result of lower level of contracts worked on in 2005 at MECAR. Inventories
increased primarily from material purchases in anticipation of sales contracts at MECAR. The
inventory buildup will give the subsidiaries, particularly MECAR, the ability to deliver products
with the shortest possible lead times. The fair value of foreign exchange contracts was a net
liability of $1,156 at December 31, 2005, compared to an asset of $1,195 at December 31, 2004,
which is due to the timing of the contracts and currency fluctuations. MECAR uses foreign currency
derivative contracts to minimize the foreign currency exposures that arise from sales contracts
that are denominated in foreign currency. Prepaid and other current assets increased primarily
from prepaid taxes at MECAR as well as receivable from the sale of MECAR s firing range.

Property, Plant   Equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, increased primarily from the
addition of fixed assets at MECAR USA, which became operational in third quarter 2005, and the
addition of fixed assets related to the acquisition of GMS in November, 2005. Intangibles
increased primarily from the GMS acquisition which includes amounts for developed technologies,
trade name and a non-compete agreement. Goodwill increased as a result of the acquisition of GMS
on November 1, 2005 as well as the currency translation adjustment with VSK, net of a write-down of
goodwill at SeaSpace.

Accounts Payable at December 31, 2005 increased from December 31, 2004 mainly as a result of
MECAR s inventory purchases late in 2005. Customer deposits increased primarily at MECAR as a
result of new contracts in 2005 in which MECAR required deposits. Deferred compensation (current)
in 2004 was associated with retirement obligations associated with an employee that was paid in
early 2005. Income taxes decreased due to the timing of tax payments.

Convertible-subordinated debenture, current and long-term, decreased from December 31, 2004 to
December 31, 2005 as the Company commenced its monthly principal payments in June 2004 and made its
final payment in March 2005. Long term debt increased in 2005 over 2004 due to the acquisition of
GMS which included a $6,700 note payable to the seller and an additional $12,000 drawn down on the
Company s line of credit facility to fund the acquisition. See
Notes J and L to the consolidated
financial statements for a description of the Company s credit facilities.

Stockholders  equity as of December 31, 2005, was negatively affected by the operating loss
for 2005 and a decrease in the value of the Euro versus the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a
decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income. The Euro depreciated by approximately 13%
during 2005.

Cash Flows. 

The table below provides the summary cash flow data for the periods presented:

Operating
Activities.  The Company used $22,229 of cash in its operating activities during 2005
whereas it generated $9,404 of cash during the same period of 2004. This is attributed primarily
to three factors. First, the Company has a loss from operations in
2005 of $38,920. After
adjusting for non-cash items such as depreciation, amortization, goodwill impairment, the
cumulative effect of accounting change, and the write off of in-process research and development,
this loss was $23,541 as compared to $5,921 income in 2004. Second, the Company increased its
inventory levels and had more expenditures related to prepaid expenses such as prepaid taxes at
MECAR. Third, the Company collected less cash on shipments to customers. In the prior year the
Company generated $14,556 of cash from the reduction of receivables levels as compared to only $196
generated in 2005. Cash paid for interest was $1,338, $1,516 and $1,492 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cash paid for income taxes was $4,541, $7,782 and
$9,455 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and includes federal,
foreign and state taxes.

28 

Investing Activities.  Cash used in investing activities increased between 2005 and 2004. This
stemmed from the acquisition of GMS, as well as higher capital expenditures for buildings and
production equipment at the MECAR USA and Titan. The Company anticipates that cash generated from
operations and financing using capital leases will be sufficient to support any further capital
expenditures in the foreseeable future. Future expenditures will be primarily incurred at MECAR
for machinery and equipment.

Financing
Activities.  The Company generated $20,153 of cash in financing activities during
2005 whereas it used $20,950 of cash during the same period of 2004. This mainly stemmed from the
$12,000 draw-down of the senior debt facility to finance the acquisition of GMS and increased
borrowings on MECAR s overdraft facility. In 2004, there were substantial payments on short-term
borrowings and the convertible debenture, offset by proceeds of long-term debt, in particular the
senior secured facility. The financing activities by operating subsidiaries are more fully
explained below.

Allied.  The parent Company continues to operate based on fees and dividends received from
its subsidiaries. Allied has made cash infusions to SeaSpace, NSM and Titan to support working
capital requirements. On May 28, 2004 the Company obtained a senior loan facility under which the
Company could borrow up to $18,000 for acquisitions and working capital. The facility contains
both affirmative and negative financial covenants. At
December 31, 2005, the Company was not in compliance with the terms of the Agreement requiring the
Company to maintain at the end of the year Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation  
Amortization (EBITDA) of not less than $15,000. The Company refinanced its senior debt facility in
the first quarter of 2006. On March 9, 2006, Allied entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement
with several purchasers for the private placement of senior subordinated convertible notes in the
principal amount of $30,000 and related warrants to purchase common stock of Allied (the
 Transactions ). The Notes accrue interest at a rate of 7.5% per annum, subject to adjustment,
with accrued interest payable quarterly in arrears in cash. The term of the Notes is five (5)
years, and the Notes are convertible into shares of common stock of Allied at a conversion price of
$26.46, subject to standard anti-dilution provisions. In connection with the issuance of the
Notes, Allied issued warrants to the Purchasers exercisable for an aggregate of 226,800 shares of
Allied common stock. The warrants are exercisable for a term of five (5) years at an exercise price
of $27.68 per share, subject to standard anti-dilution provisions similar to the provisions set
forth in the Notes. The Company s goal is to enhance the strength of its balance sheet and provide
flexibility to pursue its growth strategies. The Notes have been accounted for as a hybrid
financial instrument and were valued at its fair value at inception. In accordance with Emerging
Issues Task Force (EITF) 00-19:  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and
Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own Stock , the warrants were treated as a liability at March 9,
2006.

MECAR.  MECAR continues to operate from internally generated cash and funds provided by its
bank syndicate and financing from capital leases. MECAR also received cash from an affiliate to
fund operations. The bank syndicate agreement provides (i) lines of credit for tax prepayments and
working capital and (ii) a facility for guarantees/bonds to support customer contracts. The
financial lending terms and fees are denominated in Euros and the dollar equivalents will fluctuate
according to global economic conditions. The bank agreement imposes two financial covenants
requiring MECAR to maintain minimum net worth and working capital levels. As of December 31, 2005,
MECAR was not in compliance with these bank covenants, but is in the process of attempting to
remediate the covenants with the banks. MECAR s obligations under the bank syndicate agreement
continue to be collateralized by a pledge of MECAR s assets. The agreement includes Allied s pledge
to support MECAR so that it remains in compliance with its total borrowing obligations.

VSK Group.  VSK operated throughout 2005 solely from cash generated from business operations.
VSK is obligated on several mortgages and other long-term obligations.

Other Subsidiaries.  NSM, Titan, SeaSpace and MECAR USA operated in 2005 from cash generated
from operations and cash infusions by Allied. GMS operated in 2005 from cash generated from
operations.

Stock Repurchases.  The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock in 2005 and
does not anticipate repurchasing any shares in 2006.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments.  As described herein and in the notes to
the consolidated financial statements, Allied has contractual obligations and commercial
commitments that may affect its financial condition. However, based on management s assessment of
the underlying provisions and circumstances of the material contractual obligations and commercial
commitments of Allied, there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event or uncertainty that is
reasonably likely to occur which would have a material adverse effect on Allied s financial
condition or results of operations.

29 

The following table identifies material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005:

(1) 
       
     Interest payments on long-term debt (which are excluded above) are estimated to be $2,768,
$5,127, $4,501 and $563 for the above periods, assuming interest rates of 11.5%, 7.5% and 5.5%
for years thereafter. The impact of the March 2006 refinancing have also been estimated for
future periods. See Note Y   subsequent event of the
consolidated financial statements for a description
of the refinancing transaction. 

(2) 
       
     MECAR enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the currency risk associated with
sales contracts that are set in a currency other than MECAR s functional currency. Since
MECAR only enters these contracts to offset a sales contract amount, the Company consides
these obligations from foreign exchange contracts to be offset and thereby cash neutral and
not required to be included in this schedule. At December 31, 2005, the Company had a net
liability of $1,156 recorded for these contracts that will settle within nine months. 

Future Liquidity.  The Company is in discussions with an institutional lender to put in place
a new senior secured facility to allow for additional liquidity and growth. That senior facility
is expected to be in the range of $4,000-5,000. In the longer term, Allied s liquidity will
continue to depend on its ability to obtain substantial orders from its traditional customers and
the success of its efforts to broaden its revenue base.

The Company s ability to cover its anticipated future operating and capital requirements is
dependent upon its continued ability to generate positive cash flow from the operations of its
subsidiaries, particularly the operations of MECAR and VSK, and its ability to successfully
integrate its acquisitions. The Company looks for acquisitions to be accretive to operations
within 24 months, although this cannot be assured. This will depend upon many factors including
the successful release of new product offerings, successful research and development efforts, and
increased market share.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in
transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships,
such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ( SPEs ),
which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or
other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of December 31, 2005, we are not involved in
any material unconsolidated SPE transactions. MECAR is required to provide performance bonds and
advance payment guarantees for certain contracts, which are provided by MECAR s bank syndicate.
MECAR is obligated to repay the bank syndicate any amounts it pays as a result of any demands on
the bonds or guarantees. To date, there have never been any such demands.

At December 31, 2005, the Company had 28,000 warrants, for the purchase of common stock, at an
exercise price of $0.01 outstanding. These warrants were issued in accordance with the terms of
the Patriot senior debt facility at two warrants for each one thousand dollars borrowed and will
expire on May 28, 2012. These warrants are considered equity in the Company s financial statements
pursuant to FAS 133, Accounting for Derivatives and the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 01-99.

The Company s cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including
substantial amounts held outside the U.S. Most of the amounts held outside the U.S. could be
repatriated to the U.S., but, under current law, would be subject to federal income taxes, less
applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws.
Allied has provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on these amounts for financial statement
purposes, except for foreign earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( The Act ), enacted on October 22, 2004 (the  Jobs
Act ), provided for a temporary deduction on certain foreign earnings repatriated during a one-year
period for 85% of dividends. The deduction would result in an approximate 5.25% federal tax rate
on the repatriated earnings. The Company elected to take the benefit of the deduction for the
dividends it received from its foreign subsidiaries in 2005.

30 

The Jobs Act also included a qualified manufacturing deduction that applies to domestic
manufacturers. The deduction, when fully phased in, will provide a deduction of up to 9% of
qualified manufacturing income. The deduction cannot be claimed by companies in a net operating
loss carry-forward position. Therefore, the Company did not claim a 2005 benefit related to the
qualified manufacturing deduction. The Company has not quantified the impact of the qualified
manufacturing deduction that it can use once the net operating loss carry-forward has been fully
used.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements.  See Note A to Allied s consolidated financial statements
for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Allied does not anticipate that
any of such pronouncements will have a material impact on its financial results.

Critical Accounting Policies  

The Company s discussion and analysis of its financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows are based upon the Company s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation
of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities. The Company re-evaluates its estimates on an on-going basis. The
Company s estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ
from these estimates or judgments under different assumptions or conditions.

The Company believes the following are its critical accounting policies which affect its more
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial
statements:

Revenue recognition via the percentage of completion method 

Goodwill and intangible asset valuation 

Inventory reserves and allowance for doubtful accounts 

Derivative instruments 

Valuation of deferred income taxes and income tax reserves. 

Revenue Recognition via the Percentage of Completion Method.  We believe our most critical
accounting policies include revenue recognition and cost estimation on fixed price contracts for
which we use the percentage of completion method of accounting. The percentage of completion
method is used by MECAR, MECAR USA, NSM, and SeaSpace for substantially all of their fixed price
sales contracts. Approximately 66%, 82% and 82% of consolidated revenue was recognized under the
percentage of completion method during 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.

Under the percentage of completion method, revenue is recognized on these contracts as work
progresses during the period, using the percentage of direct labor incurred to total estimated
direct labor (at MECAR and MECAR USA) or on a total cost incurred to total estimated cost basis
(NSM and SeaSpace). Management reviews these estimates as work progresses and the effect of any
change in cost estimates is reflected in the calculation of the
expected margin and the percent
complete. If the contract is projected to create a loss, the entire estimated loss is charged to
operations in the period such loss first becomes known.

Accounting for the profit on a contract requires (1) the total contract value, (2) the
estimated total direct labor cost to complete which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred
labor costs to date on the contract and the estimated labor costs to complete the contract s scope
of work (and/or the estimated total direct cost to complete to date on the contract and the
estimated total direct costs to complete the contracts scope of work), and (3) the measurement of
progress towards completion. The estimated profit or loss on a contract is equal to the difference
between the contract value and the estimated total cost at completion. Adjustments to original
estimates are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained and as
more information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not
change, or if contract modifications occur. A number of internal and external factors affect our
cost of sales estimates, including labor rates and efficiency variances and testing requirements.
While we believe that the systems and procedures used by the subsidiaries, coupled with the
experience of their management teams, provide a sound basis for our estimates, actual results will
differ from management s estimates. The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to
the assumptions, risks and
uncertainties inherent with the application of the percentage of completion method affect the
amounts reported in our financial statements.

In 2005, MECAR changed its basis for applying the percentage of completion method in an effort
to better reflect the revenue recognized over the life of its sales contracts. Previously, MECAR
used total direct costs as the basis for recognizing revenue, but subsequently elected to use
direct labor as the basis of recognition. See further discussion in Note C.

31 

Revenue on contracts that do not qualify for the percentage of completion method are taken on a
shipment basis.

Goodwill and intangible asset valuation.  The Company adopted FASB No. 141,  Business
Combinations  and SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  on accounting for business
combinations and goodwill as of the beginning of fiscal year 2002. Accordingly, the Company no
longer amortizes goodwill from acquisitions, but continues to amortize other acquisition-related
intangibles with definitive lives and other costs. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has
$16,698 of goodwill recorded in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

In conjunction with the implementation of the accounting rules for goodwill, the Company
completed a goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2005 and determined that an
impairment charge to earnings of approximately $3.1 million was required (see further discussion in
Note I). As required by SFAS No. 142, the Company will perform a similar review each year or
earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. The impairment review is based on a
discounted cash flow approach that uses estimates of future cash flows discounted at the Company s
weighted average cost of capital and a market capitalization approach. The estimates used are
consistent with the plans and estimates that the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses.
If market conditions in these business units fail to meet expectations, it could negatively impact
revenue or cost, and could result in charges for the impairment of goodwill in future periods.

For intangible assets with definitive lives, the Company amortizes the cost over the estimated
useful life and assesses any impairment by estimating the future cash flow from the associated
asset. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $12.1 million of intangible assets with definitive
lives, which includes patents, customer lists, trademarks, etc. If the estimated undiscounted cash
flow related to these assets decreases in the future or the useful life is shorter than originally
estimated, the Company may incur charges to reflect the impairment of these assets. Impairment
could also result if the underlying technology fails to gain market acceptance, if the products
fail to gain expected market acceptance or if the market conditions in the related businesses are
unfavorable pursuant to SFAS 144. For intangible assets with
indefinite lives the Company performs an impairment evaluation in
accordance with FAS 142, Goodwill and other intangibles. At
December 31, 2005 the Company had $3,220 of intangible assets
with indefinite lives.

Inventory reserves and allowance for doubtful accounts.  Inventories are stated at the lower
of cost or market. Cost is determined based on an average cost basis. The Company s inventory
includes raw materials, work-in process and finished goods of $33.3 million as of December 31,
2005. The Company reviews its recorded inventory and estimates a write-down for obsolete or
slow-moving items to their net realizable value. The write-down is based on current and forecasted
demand and the age of the item, and therefore, if actual demand and market conditions are less
favorable than those projected by management, additional write-downs may be required. Allowances
for doubtful accounts are evaluated based upon detailed analysis and assessment of receivables that
may not be collected in the normal course of operations.

Derivative Instruments.  The Company designates its derivatives based upon the criteria
established by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities   (SFAS 133), which establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts, and for hedging activities. SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 138 and SFAS 149, requires
that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of
financial position and measure those instruments at fair value. The accounting for the changes in
the fair value of the derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting
designation. For a derivative designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in
earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the risk being
hedged. For a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the
derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) and is subsequently reclassified to earnings when the hedge exposure effects
earnings. The ineffective portion of the hedge is reported in earnings immediately. For a
derivative that does not qualify as a fair value hedge or cash flow
hedge, the change in fair value is recognized currently in net income. The Company believes that
derivative accounting is critical to its estimates and financial reporting. Pursuant to SFAS 133,
hedge accounting and the subsequent restatements related to non-hedge accounting have been material
to the Company s financial results for all periods reported and thereby represent a significant
policy to the Company. Looking forward, the Company will look to effectively manage the accounting
for its cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting. The Company believes hedge accounting
provides financial results that better describe the underlying economics of the Company s
transactions rather than the results reported under non-hedge accounting.

Valuation of deferred income taxes . The Company is subject to taxation by federal, state and
international jurisdictions. The Company s annual provision for income taxes and the determination
of the resulting deferred tax assets and liabilities involve a significant amount of management
judgment and are based on the best information available at the time. The Company believes that it
has recorded adequate liabilities and reviews those balances on a quarterly basis.

Judgment is also applied in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full
or in part. When it is more likely than not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax
assets such as foreign tax credit carryovers will not be realized, a valuation allowance is
established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that are determined not to be realizable.

32 

Forward-Looking Statements  

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates and
projections about the Company and the industries in which it operates. These statements are not
guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions ( Future
Factors ) which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ
materially from what is expressed or forecast in such forward-looking statements. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise.

Future Factors include the following:

substantial reliance on MECAR s principal customers to continue to acquire products on a regular basis; 

the cyclical nature of the Company s military business; 

rapid technological developments and changes and the Company s ability to continue to introduce competitive
new products and services on a timely, cost effective basis; 

the ability of the Company to successfully continue to expand its business base; 

the ability of the Company s acquired businesses to mature and meet performance expectations; 

the mix of products/services; 

domestic and foreign governmental fiscal affairs and public policy changes which may affect the level of
purchases made by customers; 

changes in environmental and other domestic and foreign governmental regulations; 

changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate fluctuation from market conditions; 

general risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including, without limitation,
import duties, tariffs, quotas and political and economic instability; 

the effects of terrorist actions on business activities, customer orders and cancellations, and the United
States and international governments  responses to these terrorist actions; 

changes in government regulations; 

liability and other claims asserted against us; 

the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and 

continued availability of financing, financial instruments and financial resources in the amounts, at the
times, and on the terms required to support the Company s future business. 

We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors can arise and
it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of
all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors,
may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to  market risk , including foreign currency
fluctuations and interest rates changes. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some
portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent third parties that provide
for payments based on a notional amount. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, all of the derivatives
were related to actual or anticipated exposures of our transactions. We are exposed to  credit risk 
in the event of non-performance by counterparties to derivatives. However, we monitor our
derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the
counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit worthy, or who have issued letters of credit
to support their performance.

We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the
fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. This analysis is
inherently limited because it represents a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual
market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. The effects of market movements may
also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and rights and obligations not covered by
sensitivity analysis. Fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash
flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements.

Interest Rate Sensitivity.  Allied manages its debt and its available cash considering
available investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies.
At December 31, 2005, Allied had approximately $25.7 million of fixed-rate indebtedness. Allied
has not entered into any interest rate swaps or other derivatives with respect to its indebtedness.
Cash available for investment is typically invested in short term funds, which generally mature in
under 90 days or money-market funds. In general, such funds are not subject to market risk because
the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest

33 

rate. The carrying amounts
approximate market value. It is the Company s practice to hold these investments to maturity.
Assuming year-end cash available for investment had been invested for the whole year (including
restricted cash), a 1% change in interest rates would impact net interest income for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 by $0.1 million, $0.4 million and $0.6 million,
respectively. In addition, cash and restricted cash balances would increase by 1% or $0.1
million, $0.4 million and $0.6 million, at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The
fair value of the Company s fixed rate debt will also change based on interest rate changes.

Exchange Rate Sensitivity.  Allied maintains operations in several foreign countries.
Approximately 86% of the Company s revenue was derived from operations outside the United States.
Accordingly, exposure exists to potentially adverse movement in foreign currency rates. Allied s
consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the
exchange rates between the Allied subsidiaries  local currency and the U.S. dollar will affect the
translation of such subsidiaries  financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting the
consolidated financial results. Allied does not hedge these matters because cash-flows from
international operations are generally re-invested locally. It is estimated that a 10% change in
the value of the Euro would impact reported net earnings for the years ending December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 by approximately $1.5 million, $0.7 million and $0.2 million, respectively. A 10%
change in the value of the Euro would impact reported total assets for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 by $13.3 million, $15.3 million and $19.2 million, respectively. See Note P to
the consolidated financial statements for more information on financial instruments.

Allied does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor
does Allied hedge its foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of
changes in foreign exchange rates. Allied regularly reviews its hedging program and may as part of
this review determine at any time to change its hedging program.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

The financial statements and supplementary financial information and data required by this
Item are set forth in the pages indicated in Item 15(a) (1) and (2). See Note V to Allied s
consolidated financial statements for supplementary quarterly financial data required by this item.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 

There were no disagreements on any matter of accounting principles, financial statement
disclosure or auditing scope or procedure to be reported under this item.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Under the direction and with the participation of the Company s management, including the
Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company carried out an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and
procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 as of the end of the period covered by the report.
The Company identified 6 material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting as
follows: 1) controls relating to estimates for warranty reserves were not properly designed; 2)
controls relating to accounting for certain derivative contracts were not properly designed; 3)
there was no maintenance of an appropriate contract cost accounting ledger; 4) there was a lack of
documentation of testing of key controls surrounding inventory and numerous exceptions of the key
controls were uncovered; 5) lack of documentation and testing of the Company s IT general controls;
6) controls relating to inadequate financial processes. Based on that evaluation, for the reasons set forth
below, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2005. As set forth below,
the Company has or is in the process of taking the steps necessary to remediate the material
weaknesses.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Management s report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting is included on page
F-3 of this annual report on Form 10-K, which report is included herein. The
report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm with respect to management s assessment
of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting is included on page F-4 of this
annual report on Form 10-K.

34 

There were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting or, to our knowledge,
in other factors that could significantly affect our internal control over financial reporting
during the quarter ended December 31, 2005. However, starting in the first and second quarter of 2006 we
are taking the following steps necessary to remediate the above listed material weaknesses: (1) Warranty
Reserves: We have improved the quality and documentation of the estimates supporting our warranty
reserves; (2) Derivative Accounting: We have implemented effective processes and procedures for
documentation and accounting for foreign currency contracts. The Company has retained an outside
expert for contemporaneous review of our hedging activities and documentation to ensure compliance
with FAS 133 and other relevant pronouncements; (3) Contract Accounting: We are in the process of
implementing effective new processes and procedures for documentation and accounting for contract
costs. We are upgrading our SAP system at MECAR to improve the accuracy and timeliness of the
information and transactions that are processed in the system; (4) Inventory: We have implemented
a new manufacturing and financial accounting ERP system across all U.S. subsidiaries that enables
the Company to track its inventory on a real-time basis; (5) Information Technology (IT): We are
in the process of improving the documentation of our IT General Controls. Additionally, we have
made staffing changes and improved the quality, focus and timing of our 404 IT testing; and (6) We
have restated the prior periods for the misclassification and are putting in place tighter controls
to ensure consistency and transparency in the subsidiary reporting and consolidation process.

The Company s independent registered public accounting firm,
 BDO Seidman, LLP, has issued an attestation report on management s assessment and the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. The scope of BDO Seidman s audit of management s assessment and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting was limited as a result of management s delay in the performance of and
delivery to BDO Seidman of its completed assessment. Specifically,
BDO Seidman was provided significant documentation related to
management s assessment subsequent to December 31, 2005 and, as a result, was unable to
obtain sufficient evidence that the controls were designed and operating effectively at December 31, 2005.
As a result of this limitation in scope, BDO Seidman is unable to render an opinion on either management s assessment or
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. The disclaimer
of opinion report of BDO Seidman appears below under the caption,  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005, there were no significant changes other
than those described above in
our internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

There was no information required to be disclosed in a report on Form 8-K during the fourth
quarter of 2005 which was not so disclosed.

PART III 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF ALLIED 

The following are the directors of Allied:

J. H. Binford Peay, III, age 66, became a director in April 2000 and was elected Chairman of
the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer in January, 2001. General Peay resigned as
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company as of June 1, 2003 to become Superintendent of
the Virginia Military Institute. He remains as Chairman of the Board. General Peay retired in 1997
as Commander in Chief, United States Central Command, with responsibility for operations in some 20
countries throughout Africa, the Middle East, Persian Gulf and South Asia. Previously, he was Vice
Chief of Staff, U.S. Army. General Peay is currently a director of BAE Systems, Inc., a subsidiary
of BAE Systems, plc an international defense aerospace company. He is also a Trustee of the
National Defense University. Previously, he had also been on the board of Directors of MPRI, was a
trustee of Virginia Military Institute Foundation and the George C. Marshall Foundation.

John G. Meyer, Jr., age 62, became a director in January 2003 when he was also elected as
President of the Company. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since
January, 2001. He succeeded General Peay as the CEO on June 1, 2003 until June 2005. He is
currently Chief Executive Officer of Heckler   Koch, a defense contractor. Mr. Meyer previously
retired from the U.S. Army having served as its most senior Public Affairs Officer during his last
four (4) years of military service.

35 

J. R. Sculley, age 65, became a director of Allied in 1991 and currently serves as Chairman
Emeritus. He served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from December 1992 until
September 1999; from April 1992 until December 1992 he served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of Allied. Between 1989 and April 1992, Mr. Sculley was Director of Advanced Studies and
Technologies of Grumman Corporation, a defense company, and, prior thereto, was Assistant Secretary
of the Army (Research, Development and Acquisition).

Clifford C. Christ, age 58, became a director of Allied in 1993. He has been the President
and Chief Executive Officer of NavCom Defense Electronics, Inc., a defense electronics company,
since 1988.

Harry H. Warner, age 70, became a director of Allied in early 1996. From 2002   2005, Mr.
Warner was President of the George C. Marshall Foundation. Previously, he was a self-employed
financial consultant, investor and real estate developer. He is also a director of Chesapeake
Corporation.

Ronald H. Griffith, age 67, became a director of Allied in April 2000. Mr. Griffith is
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of MPRI, Inc., a professional services
company, since 1998. Formerly, he served as Vice Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army.

Gilbert F. Decker, age 68, became a director of Allied in June 2002. Mr. Decker is a
consultant to companies in the defense and aerospace industries. He previously served as Executive
Vice President of Engineering and Production at Walt Disney Imagineering as well as he previously
served as Assistant Secretary of the Army for Research, Development and Acquisitions. Mr. Decker
is currently on the board of directors of Alliant Techsystems, Inc. and Anteon International
Corporation.

John J. Marcello, age 58, became a director in June 2006 and was elected President and Chief
Executive Officer in June 2005. He previously served as COO and then Managing Director of MECAR
S.A. from November 2002 to May 2005. Mr. Marcello retired from the U.S. Army as a Major General in
2002.

Zachary George, age 28, became a director in June 2006 and has served as a Senior Investment
Advisor of Pirate Capital LLC, an investment management company, since March 2004. Previously, he
served as an Officer in Portfolio Management for Mizuho Corporate Bank, LTD from 2002   2004. Mr.
George obtained a JD degree from Brooklyn Law School in 2002.

Charles S. Ream, age 62, became a director in June 2006. Mr. Ream served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Anteon International Corporation from 2003-2006.
Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Newport News
Shipbuilding, Inc. from 2000-2001 and Senior Vice President of Finance and Strategic Initiatives of
Raytheon Systems Company from 1998-2000. Mr. Ream is also a director of Dyncorp International as
well as a director of Stanley, Inc.

The Audit Committee is currently comprised of Messrs. Christ, Warner, Griffith and Decker.
Among its functions, the Audit Committee (i) recommends the selection of the Company s independent
public accountants, (ii) reviews the scope of the independent public accountants  audit activity,
(iii) reviews the financial statements which are the subject of the independent public accountants 
certification, and (iv) reviews the adequacy of the Company s basic accounting and internal control
systems. Each of the Audit Committee members satisfies the independence requirements and other
established criteria of the AMEX and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Board of
Directors has determined that each of Clifford C. Christ and Gilbert F. Decker qualify as an  audit
committee financial expert  as defined under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules
and is financially sophisticated as defined by AMEX rules.

On April 25, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement (the  Pirate Agreement ) with Pirate
Capital, LLC, the Company s largest stockholder. Under the terms of the Pirate Agreement, the
Company agreed to refresh its Board of Directors. Accordingly, in June 2006, John J. Marcello,
President of the Company, Zachary R. George, a Senior Investment Analyst of Pirate Capital LLC, and
Charles S. Ream, former Chief Financial Officer of Anteon International Corporation, were elected
to the Board of Directors, increasing the size of the Board to ten (10) members.

The Board of Directors has determined that a decrease in the size of the Board is appropriate,
following a short transition period. Jay R. Sculley, Clifford C. Christ, and Harry H. Warner have
announced their intent to resign from the Board effective in January 2007.

Executive Officers  

The following are the executive officers of Allied:

Mr. Marcello is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Allied.

36 

Monte L. Pickens, age 60, was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in
May 2003. Previously, Mr. Pickens was the Vice President of T. Marzetti Company. Mr. Pickens
retired from the U.S. Army as a Colonel in 1992.

Robert P. Dowski, age 51, was appointed Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer in August 2005.
Mr. Dowski was an independent financial consultant and a partner with Tatum CFO Partners LLC from
May 2005 to July 2005. From April 2004 to April 2005, Mr. Dowski was a senior financial advisor
for Neustar, Inc. He served as Neustar s Senior Vice President and CFO from August 2000 to March
2004. Prior to his tenure at Neustar, Mr. Dowski was CFO of GE/Gilat SpaceNet from April 1999 to
July 2000.

Wayne F. Hosking, Jr., age 40, was elected Vice President for Corporate Strategic Development
in April 2004. Previously, Mr. Hosking served as Vice President of Sales for Horne Engineering
Services, Inc.

Allied has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers (including
Allied s principal executive officer, principal financial officer and controller) and employees.
The code of ethics is available on the Company s website at http://www.allieddefensegroup.com.
Stockholders may request a free copy of the code of ethics from:

Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
8000 Towers Crescent Drive, Suite 260 
Vienna, Virginia 22182 
(703) 847-5268 
Attn: Investor Relations

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers   . 

The following table sets forth information concerning all compensation paid for services
rendered in all capacities to the Company and its subsidiaries during the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 to the chief executive officer of the Company and to other executive officers
of the Company whose total annual salary and bonus exceeds $100,000:

37 

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 

1  
       
     Principally relates to cost of living
adjustment from the prior year paid in the current year resulting from
Euro/U.S. Dollar fluctuations. 

OPTIONS GRANTS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR 

The following table contains information concerning the stock option grants made to each of
the named executive officers for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005:

(1) 
       
     Potential gains are net of exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These
amounts represent certain assumed rates of appreciation only, in accordance with the SEC s
rule. Actual gains, if any, on stock option exercises are dependent on the future performance
of the common stock, overall market conditions and the option holders  continued employment
through the vesting period. The amounts reflected in this table may not necessarily be
achieved. 

38 

AGGREGATED OPTIONS EXERCISED IN LAST 
FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END VALUES 

The following table sets forth information concerning option exercise and option holdings by
each of the named executive officers for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005:

(1) 
       
     Represents the closing price per share on the date the option was exercised less the option
exercise price multiplied by the number of shares acquired upon exercise. 

(2) 
       
     Represents the closing price per share of the underlying shares on the last day of the fiscal
year less the option exercise price
multiplied by the number of shares. The closing price per share was $22.77 on the last trading
day of the fiscal year as reported on the AMEX. 

Director Compensation 

Each director is compensated for service at the annual rate of $24,000 in cash and $36,000 in
Allied stock. The directors are allowed to defer receipt of the cash and/or the Allied stock until
they retire from the Allied board. As Chairman Emeritus, Mr. Sculley is entitled to an additional
$500 per month. As Chairman of the Board, General Peay is entitled to the same cash and
stock-based compensation as paid to non-employee members of the Board of Directors plus (i) an
additional $1,000 per month and (ii) reimbursement of annual premiums paid on a $1 million life
insurance policy, together with all applicable income taxes. The Company also reimburses directors
for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with their service.

In 1992, the Board of Directors of Allied adopted the Outside Directors Retirement Plan (the
 Directors Retirement Plan ) to provide retirement benefits for long-standing non-employee
directors ( Outside Directors ). Under the Directors Retirement Plan, Outside Directors are
eligible for a retirement benefit if they retire from the Board and have served as a member of the
Board for a minimum of five (5) years. An eligible Outside Director who retires from the Board is
entitled to receive, commencing on the last day of the first month following the month in which the
director attains age seventy (70), monthly payments equal to the monthly cash compensation received
from Allied at the time the director terminated service in such capacity. Such payments will cease
upon the earlier of the expiration of a period of time equivalent to the period of time the
director served as a member of the Board or the death of the director. The Directors Retirement
Plan was suspended in 2001. Messrs. Christ, Warner and Sculley are entitled to receive benefits
under the Plan upon their retirement from the Board for prior service. No further benefits have
accrued or will accrue under the plan since its suspension in 2001.

In 2005, Mr. Sculley was paid approximately $80,000 in satisfaction of his post-employment
severance entitlement. No further payments are required.

Employment Contracts and Change-In-Control Agreements 

Mr. Marcello s employment agreement provides for an annual salary of $295,000 and the
potential to earn an annual bonus up to 50% of the annual salary upon satisfaction of certain
performance standards. Upon certain terminations of Mr. Marcello s employment, he will be entitled
to receive his annual salary for up to two (2) years following such termination. Further, if the
termination of employment occurs within twelve (12) months of a change of control, the payments may
be accelerated into a lump sum payment at the election of Mr. Marcello.

39 

Mr. Pickens  employment agreement provides for an annual salary of $240,000 and the potential
to earn an annual bonus up to 45% of the annual salary upon satisfaction of certain performance
standards. Upon certain terminations of Mr. Pickens  employment, he will be entitled to receive
his annual salary for up to two (2) years following such termination. Further, if the termination
of employment occurs within twelve (12) months of a change of control, the payments may be
accelerated into a lump sum payment at the election of Mr. Pickens.

Mr. Dowski s employment agreement provides for an annual salary of $210,000 and the potential
to earn an annual bonus up to 40% of the annual salary upon satisfaction of certain performance
standards. Upon certain terminations of Mr. Dowski s employment, he will be entitled to receive
his annual salary for up to two (2) years following such termination. Further, if the termination
of employment occurs within twelve (12) months of a change of control, the payments may be
accelerated into a lump sum payment at the election of Mr. Dowski.

Mr. Hosking s employment agreement provides for an annual salary of $190,000 and the potential
to earn an annual bonus up to 35% of the annual salary upon satisfaction of certain performance
standards. Upon certain terminations of Mr. Hosking s employment, he will be entitled to receive
his annual salary for one year following such termination. Further, if the termination of
employment occurs within twelve (12) months of a change of control, the payments may be accelerated
into a lump sum payment at the election of Mr. Hosking.

In June, 2001, the Board of Directors of Allied adopted a new stockholder rights plan (the
 Rights Plan ). The Rights Plan was amended in June, 2006. The Rights Plan provides each
stockholder of record on a dividend distribution one  right  for each outstanding share of Allied s
common stock. Rights become exercisable at the earlier of ten days following: (1) a public
announcement that an acquirer has purchased or has the right to acquire 20% or more of Allied s
common stock, or (2) the commencement of a tender offer which would result in an offeror
beneficially owning 20% or more of the outstanding common stock of Allied. All rights held by an
acquirer or offeror expire on the announced acquisition date, and all rights expire at the close of
business on May 31, 2011. Each right entitles a stockholder to acquire at a stated purchase price,
1/100 of a share of Allied s preferred stock which carries voting and dividend rights similar to
one share of its common stock. Alternatively, a right holder may
elect to purchase for the stated price an equivalent number of shares of Allied s common stock (or
in certain circumstances, cash, property or other securities of Allied) at a price per share equal
to one-half of the average market price for a specified period. In lieu of the purchase price, a
right holder may elect to acquire one-half of the common stock available under the second option.
The purchase price of the preferred stock fractional amount is subject to adjustment for certain
events as described in the Rights Plan. At the discretion of a majority of the Board and within a
specified time period, Allied may redeem all of the rights at a price of $.01 per right. The Board
may also amend any provisions of the Rights Plan prior to exercise. A committee of independent
directors will review the Rights Plan at least every three (3) years to assess its terms,
conditions and whether continuation of the Rights Plan remains in the best interests of the
stockholders.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation 

The Compensation Committee of Allied consists of Messrs. Harry W. Warner, and Ronald H.
Griffith and Gilbert F. Decker. J. R. Sculley, a former Chairman of the Board and President of
Allied, also served on the Compensation Committee in 2003.

ITEM 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  

The following table sets forth information with respect to the shares of the Company s common
stock which are held by the only persons known to the Company to be the beneficial owners of more
than 5% of such common stock based upon the most recent filings made by the undersigned with the
Securities and Exchange Commission:

40 

1  
       
     Based upon 6,041,465 shares of common stock outstanding. 

2  
       
     Pirate Capital LLC and Thomas R. Hudson,
Jr. filed a Form 4 with the SEC on August 22, 2006. Previous filings state
that Pirate Capital LLC and Thomas R. Hudson, Jr. are deemed to have shared
voting and shared dispositive power with respect to 882,300 shares, which
shares are owned of record by Jolly Roger Fund LP and Jolly Roger Offshore Fund
Ltd. 

3  
       
     Kings Road Investments Ltd. filed a
Schedule 13G with the SEC on March 22, 2006 reporting ownership of a note
convertible 472,499 shares and a stock purchase warrant exercisable into 94,500
shares. 

4  
       
     Wynnefield Capital Management, LLC,
Wynnefield Capital, Inc., Wynnefield Partners Small Cap Value, L.P., Wynnefield
Partners Small Cap Value, L.P. I., and Wynnefield Small Cap Value Offshore
Fund,Ltd., filed a Schedule 13D/A with the SEC on July 18, 2006. 

5  
       
     Dimensional Fund Advisors, Inc. ( Dimensional ),
a registered investment advisor, filed an amended Schedule 13G with the SEC on
February 6, 2006. 

6  
       
     Wells Fargo   Company filed a Schedule 13G with the SEC on
January 24, 2006. 

7  
       
     Tamarack Enterprise Fund filed a Schedule 13G with the SEC on
January 25, 2006. 

8  
       
     Aegis Financial Corporation, William S. Berno, Paul Gamble,
and Scott L. Barbee jointly filed an amendment to its Schedule 13G
with the SEC on February 14, 2006. 

41 

The following information is furnished as of September 15, 2006, with respect to the beneficial
ownership by management of the Company s common stock:

1 
       
     Based upon 6,031,465 shares of common stock outstanding
plus any outstanding options, by director. 

2 
       
     Includes stock options for 206,500 shares which may be exercised within
sixty (60) days. 

3 
       
     Includes stock options for 13,000 shares which may be exercised within
sixty (60) days, 5,203 shares issuable upon retirement from the Board
pursuant to the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and 3,278 shares
issuable upon retirement from the Board pursuant to the terminated Outside
Directors Retirement Plan. 

4 
       
     Includes stock options for 13,000 shares which may be exercised within
sixty (60) days and 5,203 shares issuable upon retirement from the Board
pursuant to the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan. 

5 
       
     Includes stock options for 13,000 shares which may be exercised within
sixty (60) days. 

6 
       
     Includes stock options for 354,500 shares which may be exercised within
sixty (60) days and 24,090 shares issuable upon retirement from the Board. 

* 
       
     Less than 1% 

42 

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. 

In early February, 2006, Robert P. Dowski, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, made a $1
million bridge loan to the Company. The loan advance, together with interest at twelve percent
(12%) per annum, was repaid to Mr. Dowski in early March, 2006, when the Company closed its $30
million convertible note financing.

Mr. Sculley s employment with the Company terminated in September, 1999. During 2005 and
2004, the Company paid Mr. Sculley approximately $66,667 and $80,000, respectively, in satisfaction
of his post-employment severance entitlement. No further payments are required.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICE. 

The following table sets forth the fees paid by the Company to BDO Seidman LLP and Grant
Thornton LLP for audit and other services provided for 2005 and 2004:

Audit fees include work in connection with quarterly reviews.

Additional audit fees of approximately $147,000 and $165,000 were billed to the Company s
foreign subsidiaries by other auditors for audit related services primarily involving statutory
audits required by the laws of Belgium for 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Audit Committee considered whether the provision of services referenced above is
compatible with maintaining independence.

The Audit Committee s policy is to pre-approve all audit and permissible non-audit services
provided by the independent registered public accounting firm. These services may include audit
services, audit-related services, tax services and other services. Pre-approval is generally
provided for up to one year. The Audit Committee may also pre-approve particular services on a
case-by-case basis.

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

Exhibit No.  
       
      Description of Exhibits  

3.1

Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in August 2002). 

3.2

Amended and restated By-Laws (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in August 2004). 

3.3

Rights Agreement between Allied and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (Incorporated by reference
from Form 8-K filed in June 2001). 

10.1

Employment Agreement between Allied and John J. Marcello (Incorporated by reference from Form
10-Q filed in August 2005). 

10.2

Employment Agreement between Allied and Robert P. Dowski (Incorporated by reference from Form
10-Q filed in November 2005). 

43 

Exhibit No.  
       
      Description of Exhibits  

10.3

Employment Agreement between Allied and Monte L. Pickens (Incorporated by reference from Form
8-K filed in April 2003). 

10.4

Employment Agreement letter amendment between Allied and Monte L. Pickens (Incorporated by
reference from Form 10-Q filed in August 2004). 

10.5

Employment Agreement between Allied and Wayne F. C. Hosking, Jr. (Incorporated by reference
from Form 8-K filed in April 2004). 

10.6

2001 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (Incorporated by reference from Proxy Statements filed
in April 2001, April 2002 and May 2005). 

10.7

8% Convertible Debenture, Series A and related documents (Incorporated by reference from Form
8-K filed in July 2002). 

10.8

Credit Agreement for MECAR S.A. (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in August
2002). 

10.9

Award/Contract dated as of March 1, 2002, by and between MECAR S.A. and U.S. Government
(Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in August 2002). 

10.10

Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in
November 2002). 

10.11

Lease Agreement, as amended (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in November
2002). 

10.12

Amendment to Lease Agreement 

10.13

Form of Indemnity Agreement for Directors and Executive Officers (Incorporated by reference
from Form 10-Q filed in November 2002). 

10.14

International Distribution Agreement (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in
November 2002). 

10.15

Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (Incorporated by reference from Form
10-Q filed in August 2004). 

10.16

Loan and Security Agreement among Wilton Funding, LLC and Allied and certain of its
subsidiaries (Incorporated by reference from Form 8-K filed in June 2004) 

10.17

Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement among Wilton Funding, LLC and Allied and certain of
its subsidiaries (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-K/A filed in March 2005) 

10.18

Stock Option Agreement-Employee Form (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in
November 2004) 

10.19

Director s Stock Option Agreement-Director Form (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q
filed in November 2004) 

10.20

Summary of Annual Compensation of Board Members  

10.21

Restricted Stock Agreement (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q filed in May, 2005) 

10.22

7.5% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes and related documents (Incorporated by reference
from 8-K filed in March 2006) 

18.1

Letter from independent public accountant related to change in application of accounting principle 

21

List of Subsidiaries 

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (a) 

23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (a) 

31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (a) 

31.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (a) 

32

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (a) 

(a) Filed herewith

Reports on Form 8-K  

On October 3, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the resignation of Grant Thornton LLP
as the Company s independent registered public accounting firm.

On October 31, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K/A reporting the engagement of BDO Seidman, LLP
as its independent register public accounting firm.

On November 14, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the need to restate the financial
results for the first and second quarters of 2005 as well as its 2005 third quarter results.

On November 18, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the acquisition of Global Microwave
Systems, Inc.

44 

On December 9, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the receipt of an inquiry letter
from the American Stock Exchange.

On
January 24, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the announcement of an interim
business update for its fiscal year 2005, which ended December 31, 2005.

On February 3, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the announcement of an update to its
previously issued guidance for fiscal year 2005, which ended December 31, 2005.

On February 13, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting Bridge Financing.

On March 9, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting a Securities Purchase Agreement.

On March 31, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting it will require additional time
to file its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.

On April 7, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the receipt of a letter from the
American Stock Exchange (AMEX).

On April 25, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting an Agreement with Pirate Capital LLC.

On May 12, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the Board of Directors decision to
approve a series of strategic and corporate governance initiatives to increase shareholder value
and keep pace with evolving best governance practices.

On
June 21, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the election of two new
directors to its Board of Directors, a decrease in the size of the Board and
modification to the Company s shareholder rights plan.

On
June 28, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the election of a third new
director to its Board of Directors.

On
August 7, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the announcement of
preliminary first quarter financial results for the period ending March 31, 2006.

On August 21, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting that the Company will restate
its financial results for the periods ending December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 and the first
three quarters of 2005.

45 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Allied has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

The Allied Defense Group, Inc.

By:   
                      /s/ John J. Marcello.

John J. Marcello  

Chief Executive Officer and President  

Date: October 6, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of Allied and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

By:   
                                    /s/ Robert P. Dowski

Robert P. Dowski,  

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

Date: October 6, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Deborah F. Ricci

Deborah F. Ricci,  

Controller  

Date: October 6, 2006

********** 

/s/ J. R. Sculley

J. R. Sculley, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ Clifford C. Christ 

Clifford C. Christ, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ Harry H. Warner 

Harry H. Warner, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ Ronald H. Griffith 

Ronald H. Griffith, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ Gilbert F. Decker 

Gilbert F. Decker, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ John G. Meyer, Jr. 

John G. Meyer, Jr., Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ J. H. Binford Peay, III 

J. H. Binford Peay, III, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ Zachary R. George 

Zachary R. George, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ Charles S. Ream 

Charles S. Ream, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

/s/ John J. Marcello 

John J. Marcello, Director 

Date: October 6, 2006

46 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES 

December 31, 2005 

FORMING A PART OF 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

FORM 10-K 
OF 
The Allied Defense Group Inc. 

F-1 

The Allied Defense Group Inc. 

INDEX
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES 

Page 

Management s Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting

F - 3 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F - 4 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F - 5 

Report on
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F - 6 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004

F - 7 

Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2005

F - 8 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2005

F - 9 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2005

F - 10 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F - 12 

Schedules as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2005

Schedule I   Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

F - 38 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

F - 41 

F-2 

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

To the Stockholders of The Allied Defense Group, Inc.:

The management of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. The Company s internal control system was designed to
provide reasonable assurance to the Company s management and board of directors regarding the
preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment we believe that, as of December 31, 2005,
the Company s internal control over financial reporting was ineffective based on those criteria.
We identified six material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.

The first material weakness concerned the design of controls in place relating to estimates for
warranty reserves at our Belgian subsidiary, VSK Electronics. We have strengthened the design and
documentation supporting these accounts and believe that this material weakness was remediated in
the first quarter of 2006. The amount in question was $819 as of
December 31, 2005.

The second material weakness concerned the accounting for foreign currency exchange (FX) contracts
of our foreign operations in that we did not comply with the guidelines of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 133  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (FAS 133) and
Financial Accounting Standard No. 52  Foreign Currency Translation  (FAS 52) related to
derivatives. We have retained an expert for contemporaneous review of
our hedging activities and documentation to ensure compliance with
FAS 133. We believe we
are in the process of completing our remediation of the foreign currency weakness.

The third material weakness concerned accounting for contract costs at our Belgian subsidiary MECAR
SA. The Company did not maintain an accurate contract accounting cost ledger. We have implemented
improved processes and procedures for accounting and contract costs. Additionally, we are upgrading our accounting system at the subsidiary where the material weakness existed to improve the
accuracy and timeliness of the information and transactions that are processed in the system. We
are in the process of completing our remediation of this material weakness.

The fourth material weakness concerned accounting for inventory costs at certain U.S. Subsidiaries.
The Company lacked sufficient key controls and was unable to accurately track and report inventory
balances. In response, the Company undertook several remedial actions in 2006 to address the
inventory related material weaknesses. The Company is in the process of implementing a new
accounting system across all U.S. subsidiaries which will enable it to track its inventory on a
real-time basis. Until this system is fully implemented management has implemented more manual
processes and methods which are labor intensive to track inventory costs and movement. The Company
expects that our new controls and processes will enable the Company to appropriately account
for inventory going forward.

The fifth material weakness concerned the lack of documentation and testing of the Company s IT
general controls. The Company s general controls were not appropriately designed and management
testing was not performed on a timely basis. The Company is in the process of improving the
documentation and processes in the IT department. Additionally, the Company has made staffing
changes and improved the quality, focus and timing of the 404 IT testing.

The sixth material weakness concerns the Company s inadequate financial reporting processes. The Company s recent restatements as
well as the Company s general consolidation and reporting processes were not adequate to meet the
needs of the public reporting requirements. As such, the Company has increased staffing and made
resource changes at all levels throughout the organization. The Company will continue to address
issues until management is satisfied that the matter is fully remediated.

The continued implementation of the initiatives described above is among our highest priorities. We
have discussed our corrective actions and future plans with our Audit Committee and BDO Seidman,
LLP. As of the date of this report, we believe the actions outlined above should correct the
above-listed material weakness in our internal control. However, we cannot assure you that either
we or our independent registered public accountants will not in the future identify additional material weaknesses or
significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting.

A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected.

The Company s independent registered public accounting firm,
 BDO Seidman, LLP, has issued an attestation report on management s assessment and the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. The scope of BDO Seidman s audit of management s assessment and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting was limited as a result of management s delay in the performance of and
delivery to BDO Seidman of its completed assessment. Specifically,
BDO Seidman was provided significant documentation related to
management s assessment subsequent to December 31, 2005 and, as a result, was unable to
obtain sufficient evidence that the controls were designed and operating effectively at December 31, 2005.
As a result of this limitation in scope, BDO Seidman is unable to render an opinion on either management s assessment or
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. The disclaimer
of opinion report of BDO Seidman appears below under the caption,  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

/s/ Robert P. Dowski

Robert P. Dowski

/s/ John J. Marcello

John J. Marcello.

Chief Financial Officer

Chief Executive Officer 

October
5, 2006

October 5, 2006 

F-3 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

We were engaged to audit management s assessment included in the accompanying Management s Report
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting that The Allied Defense Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
(the  Company ) did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2005, because of the effect of the material weaknesses described therein, based on criteria
established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). The Company s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.

The scope of our audit of management s assessment and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting was limited as a result of management s inability to complete its assessment
prior to December 31, 2005. Specifically, we were provided a significant portion of the
documentation related to management s assessment subsequent to December 31, 2005 and, as a result,
we were unable to obtain sufficient evidence that the controls were designed and operating
effectively at December 31, 2005.

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results
in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated
financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The following material weaknesses have
been identified and included in management s assessment as of December 31, 2005: 1) Ineffective
controls and procedures to ensure that warranty reserves were properly estimated; 2) Ineffective
controls and procedures to ensure that derivative contracts and foreign currency transactions were
accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 3) Failure to maintain
an appropriate contract cost accounting ledger; 4) Ineffective controls over inventory at certain
subsidiaries; 5) Insufficient documentation and testing of the Company s IT general controls; and
6) Inadequate financial reporting processes.

These material weaknesses were considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of the
audit tests we applied in our audit of the Company s 2005 consolidated financial statements, and
this report does not affect our report dated October 5, 2006 on those consolidated financial
statements.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only
in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Since management did not provide us with timely documentation of the Company s internal controls
over financial reporting and we were unable to apply other procedures to satisfy ourselves as to
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, the scope of our work
was not sufficient to enable us to express, and we do not express, an opinion either on management s assessment of or on
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005.

We do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on management s statements referring to
any and all remediation steps taken.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. and
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our report thereon
dated October 5, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion.

BDO Seidman LLP 
Bethesda, Maryland

October 5, 2006

F-4 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

Board of Directors and Stockholders 
The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
Vienna, Virginia

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. as of
December 31, 2005 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and
cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2005. We have also audited the schedules listed in the
accompanying index. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
and schedules based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and schedules are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements and schedules, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements and schedules. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. at December 31, 2005,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2005 ,  in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Also, in our opinion, the schedules present fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.

As discussed in Note A to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its
methodology of applying the percentage of completion method for the recognition of revenue at one
of its subsidiaries.

We were also engaged to audit, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), management s assessment and the effectiveness of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). Our report dated October 5, 2006, did not
express an opinion on management s
assessment and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting and the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.

BDO Seidman, LLP

Bethesda, Maryland

October 5, 2006

F-5 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
The Allied Defense Group, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and the related consolidated statements of earnings,
stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31,
2004. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2004 and the consolidated results of their earnings and their cash flows for each
of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

As described in Note A, the Company restated its consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each
of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004.

Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements
taken as a whole. The schedules listed in the index of financial statements are presented for
purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial statements.
These schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, are fairly stated in all material respects in relation to
the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/ Grant Thornton LLP 
Baltimore, Maryland  
September 28, 2005

F-6 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(in thousands of dollars) 
December 31, 

F-7 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(in thousands of dollars, except per share data) 

Years ended December 31, 

F-8 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
(in thousands of dollars, except per share data) 

Years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

F-9 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(in thousands of dollars) 
Years ended December 31, 

F-10 

F-11 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
(Thousands of Dollars) 

NOTE A   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation.  The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts of Allied
and its wholly-owned subsidiaries as follows:

ARC Europe, S. A. (ARC Europe), a Belgian company, 

Allied Research Corporation Limited (Limited), an inactive United Kingdom company, 

News/Sports Microwave Rental, Inc. (NSM), a California corporation, 

Titan Systems, Inc., (Titan), a Texas corporation, 

SeaSpace Corporation (SeaSpace), a California corporation, and 

Mecar USA, a Delaware corporation, 

Allied Technology, LLC ( Allied Technology ), a Maryland limited liability company 

Global Microwave Systems, Inc. ( GMS ), a California corporation. 

ARC Europe includes its wholly-owned subsidiaries MECAR S.A. (MECAR), Sedachim S.I., S.A. and VSK.
VSK is comprised of VSK Electronics N.V. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Tele Technique
Generale, S.A., Intelligent Data Capturing Systems, N.V., Belgian Automation Units, N.V., VIGITEC
S.A., and CMS Security Systems.

Significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the consolidation.

Nature of Operations.  The Allied Defense Group Inc. (Allied), a Delaware corporation, is a
strategic portfolio of defense and security businesses, with presence in worldwide markets,
offering both government and commercial customers leading edge products and services. These
products and services are marketed to the ordinance, electronic security, environmental safety and
software simulation markets.

Liquidity
 and Capital Resources  . The Company
incurred a net income (loss) of $38,920 and had net cash used from
operations of $22,229 in
2005. ADG had a December 31, 2005
balance of cash and equivalents of $7,803 and restricted cash of
$7,428. The Company closed a
$30,000 convertible debt facility in March 2006. Net proceeds were $28,000. $15,200 was used to
retire existing debt   including the Patriot facility. The remaining $12,800 was available to be
used in 2006 to fund working capital needs. As of June 30, 2006
the Company had $13,700 of cash
and equivalents and $9,300 of restricted cash.

The Company expects to expend nearly all of the net
proceeds from the convertible note financing before December 31,
2006 and will likely explore other sources
of additional liquidity pending the anticipated return of substantial business from MECAR s
traditional customer base.

At
the headquarters level the Company believes that the professional costs related to the restatement
incurred in the first three quarters of 2006 will not be recurring in 2007. The
Company has invested in a financial and manufacturing ERP system for all of its US subsidiaries and
enhanced its headquarters financial staff. These improvements should help the Company
significantly reduce its compliance and audit costs starting in 2007. The Company has
also invested in video conferencing facilities to link headquarters with all of the subsidiary
locations, which should reduce travel costs from 2006 to 2007.

The Company is evaluating a variety of options to increase its liquidity in the fourth quarter
of 2006 and into early 2007:

The Company intends to have in place, and is in the process of negotiating, a domestic
line of credit by year end that will provide $4,000 to $5,000 of immediate liquidity with
a provision to accordion up to $20,000 based on financial performance in subsequent
periods. 

The Company is exploring possible asset backed financing from local banks at its US
based AWE facilities that would be earmarked for capital improvement   buildings and/or
equipment   at that site. 

The Company is evaluating the disposition of certain non strategic assets. 

The Company has the option of issuing dividends of excess cash from its Euro based ES
operations at year end. 

The Company may further consolidate its California operations to further reduce
operating expenses. 

Restatements of Financial Results   The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004 and
the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated. The restatement provided in this Form
10-K corrects amounts previously reported in Allied s consolidated balance sheet at December 31,
2004 and the related statements of operations, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the
two years in the period ended December 31, 2004 for certain errors related to incorrect currency
rates used to translate MECAR, S.A. s U. S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities into its
functional currency, and for the grant of stock options to certain officers and directors in 2002
for which the actual accounting measurement date was after the measurement dates used by the
Company to record such awards.

The determination to restate the consolidated financial statements was approved by Allied s
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of Allied s senior management.

In October 2005, the Company filed an amended 2004 Form 10-K and an amended Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2005 related to the Company s failure to comply with the guidelines of FAS
133 regarding accounting treatment of its foreign currency hedge contracts at its Belgian
subsidiary, MECAR, and the subsequent valuation of that subsidiary s assets and liabilities
resulting from foreign currency transactions once the subsidiary failed to qualify for hedge
accounting.

In the periods 2002 through 2005, as the volume of U.S. dollar sales contracts grew, MECAR
entered into foreign currency hedge contracts to control the subsidiary s exposure to currency risk
from fluctuations in the U.S. dollar as compared to the Euro, its functional currency. Management
and the audit committee determined that an additional restatement was necessary to correct foreign
currency transaction and translation errors and correct certain reclassifications that were made in
the previously reported amounts that were either incomplete or inaccurate.

In addition to the correction of previously reported amounts described above, this restatement
also provides for the correction of compensation expense recorded in the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2004. In February 2002, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Allied
granted stock option awards at the then market price, subject to subsequent approval by the
stockholders of an amendment to the Company s stock plan that would increase the number of shares
available under that plan. The stockholders approved the amendment to the plan in June 2002. The
Company incorrectly used the February 2002 award date as the measurement date for the options
granted rather than the stockholder approval date in June 2002. The options granted were for
220,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $16.40 per share. The total compensation
expense associated with this change in measurement date was $1,298 that should have been recognized
over the vesting period of thirty-four months subsequent to the measurement date. Based on the
vesting period of the options, an increase to compensation expense of $451 and $433 was recognized
in 2003 and 2004, respectively.

The
restatement also corrected the classification of MECAR s bank
overdraft facility from an operating activity for cash flow purposes
to financing activity. Prior to the restatement, the balance of the
bank overdraft facility was included in accounts payable. The balance
of the bank overdraft facility at December 31, 2005 and
December 31, 2004 was $15,086 and $5,553, respectively. The
financing activity for the bank overdraft facility from a cash
flow perspective was $9,534, $1,293 and $(273) of cash generated
(used) in
2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively.

A summary of the impact of this restatement is provided below. The reader is referred to Note
A to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these matters.
The  As Previously Reported in 10-K/A  refers to previously reported in Allied s Form 10-K/A filed
in October 2005. The  Restated  information represents the correction of errors to MECAR s foreign
currency transactions and the correction of compensation expense recorded in the years 2002, 2003,
and 2004 related to accounting for stock options granted in 2002

Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations Data:  

F-12 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
(Thousands of Dollars) 

(1) 
       
     Impact of correcting for certain errors related to incorrect exchange rates to translate
MECAR S.A. s U.S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities into its
functional currency and other adjustments related to foreign currency transactions. 

(2) 
       
     Impact of correcting compensation expense related to the grant of stock options to certain
officers and directors in 2002 for which the measurement date was incorrectly determined. These
options were granted in February 2002 by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
the Company, but were subject to subsequent stockholder approval, which was not obtained until June
2002. 

Selected Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:  

(1) 
       
     Impact of correcting for certain errors related to incorrect
exchange rates to translate MECAR s U.S. dollar denominated assets and
liabilities into its functional currency and other adjustments
related to foreign currency transactions. 

(2) 
       
     Impact of correcting compensation expense related to stock
options, noted above. 

Cash Flow Information 

The cash flow statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to
reflect a reclassification of a bank overdraft facility from operating cash flows to financing cash
flows.

F-13 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
(Thousands of Dollars) 

Foreign Currency Translation.  The assets and liabilities of ARC Europe and subsidiaries including
MECAR, VSK and ARC Limited are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Resulting
translation gains and losses are accumulated in a separate component of stockholders  equity.
Income and expense items are converted into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing
during the year. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are credited or charged directly
to operations.

Reclassifications.  Certain items in the 2004 and 2003 financial statements have been reclassified
to conform to the current presentation.

Use of Estimates.  In preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, management is required to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenue and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Accounting Change.  In 2005, MECAR changed its methodology of applying the percentage of
completion method for the recognition of revenue. This change was made in an effort to
better reflect the revenue recognized during the life of its sales contracts. Previously,
MECAR used total direct costs as the basis for recognizing revenue, but in 2005, the Company
elected to use direct labor as the basis of recognition. The impact of this change on the
previously reported interim periods during 2005 is disclosed in Note W. The cumulative
effect of this change, recorded January 1, 2005, reduced revenues by $5,293,
net of tax benefit of $2,726. Pro forma amounts assuming change in application of
accounting principle applied retroactively shown are in Note C.

Cash
and cash equivalents.  The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three
months or less to be cash equivalents. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had no cash
equivalents.

F-14 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

Accounts Receivable.  Accounts receivable from foreign government agencies are supported by
letters of credit or other guarantees. They are stated at the amount the Company expects to
collect from balances outstanding at year end. Based on management s assessment of the supported
letters of credit and other guarantees, it has concluded that no allowance for doubtful accounts
is required. The Company maintains an allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable for
commercial receivables which is determined based on historical experience and management s
expectations of future losses. Losses have historically been within management s expectations.
The Company charges the accounts receivable to the established provision when collection efforts
have been exhausted and the receivables are deemed uncollectible. The balance of the allowance for
doubtful accounts was $214 and $143 at 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Inventories.  Inventories consist of raw materials, work in process, and finished goods, and are
stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined principally by the average cost method.
The Company reviews its recorded inventory periodically and estimates a reserve for obsolete or
slow-moving items to their net realizable value. The inventory reserve is based on current and
forecasted demand and the age of the item, and therefore, if actual demand and market conditions
are less favorable than those projected by management, additional reserves may be required.

Property, Plant and Equipment.  Property, Plant and
Equipment are stated at cost and depreciated using
the straight-line method over their estimated
service lives, as follows:

Buildings
and improvements

20-30 years 

Machinery and equipment

3-10 years 

Demonstration Inventory

3 7 years 

Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the lease term or their estimated useful
lives. Accelerated depreciation methods are used for tax purposes on certain assets. Maintenance
and repairs are charged to expense as incurred; additions and betterments are capitalized. Upon
retirement or sale, the cost and related accumulated depreciation of the disposed assets are
removed and any resulting gain or loss is credited or charged to operations.

Assets under capital lease obligations are recorded at the lesser of the present value of the
minimum lease payments or the fair market value of the leased asset, at the inception of the
lease. Amortization of assets acquired under capital lease obligations is recorded in depreciation
expense.

Property, plant and equipment includes demonstration inventory, which is recorded at cost.
Amortization of demonstration inventory is included in depreciation expense.

Intangibles/Goodwill.  Intangibles and goodwill, acquired in connection with business
acquisitions, are stated at cost. Approximately 85% of the value of intangible assets, other than
goodwill, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected lives of three to ten years.
Two intangibles, a customer list and a patent, in the Electronic Security segment are amortized
over fifteen and sixteen and one-half years, respectively. Goodwill is not amortized, but is
subject to an impairment test along with other indefinite lived intangibles, pursuant to the
provision of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. . Intangible assets with finite
lives are evaluated for impairment in accordance with SFAS
No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  In addition, the Company evaluates the useful lives of finite
life intangibles annually. The primary indicators in evaluating impairment are current and
forecasted profitability and cash flow of the related businesses.

Based on
the impairment tests performed in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company took an impairment
charge to the goodwill of its SeaSpace subsidiary of $3,060. The Company based this impairment on
the historical and projected operating results of this business unit and had an independent firm
prepare a valuation of the business based on this financial information. This impairment was due
to SeaSpace s increased competitive marketplace and its inability to yield its projected results
in the four year period subsequent to the Company s purchase of Seaspace.

Derivative Financial Instruments.  The Company designates its derivatives
based upon the criteria established by
SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities  ,
which establishes accounting and
reporting standards for derivative
instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts, and for hedging activities.
SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 138 and
SFAS 149, requires that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either
assets or liabilities in the statement
of financial position and measure those
instruments at fair value. The
accounting for the changes in the fair
value of the

F-15 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

derivative depends on the
intended use of the derivative and the
resulting designation. For a derivative
designated as a fair value hedge, the
gain or loss is recognized in earnings
in the period of change together with
the offsetting loss or gain on the
hedged item due to the risk being
hedged. For a derivative designated as
a cash flow hedge, the effective portion
of the derivative s gain or loss is
initially reported as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) and is subsequently reclassified
to earnings when the hedge exposure
effects earnings. The ineffective
portion of the hedge is reported in
earnings immediately. For a derivative
that does not qualify as a fair value
hedge or cash flow hedge, the change in
fair value is recognized in net income
in the current period. It is the
Company s policy to classify all of its
derivative instruments for cash
flow purposes as operating activities. The cash flows from
(used in) forward contracts were
($2,987), $9,181 and $27,731 in 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

Revenue and Cost Recognition. 

Percentage of Completion Method     Revenues under fixed price contracts are recognized on
the percentage-of-completion method measured by direct labor incurred to total estimated
direct labor. Revenues from indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity
(IDIQ) are also recognized on a percentage of completion methodology,
measured based upon units delivered. The actual costs on these contracts may differ from the Company s estimate at
completion. Provision for estimated losses and penalties on contracts are recorded when
identified. Revenues under cost-plus-fixed-fee and time and material contracts are
recognized on the basis of costs incurred during the period plus the fee earned. As contracts
extend over one or more years, revisions in costs and earnings estimated during the course of
the work are reflected in the accounting period in which the facts which require the revision
become known. The revenue recognized on the contracts in progress for 2005, 2004 and 2003
were $81,301, $115,462 and $125,211, respectively. Costs and accrued profits on uncompleted
direct and indirect fixed price contracts with foreign governments, direct and indirect U.S.
government foreign military sales (FMS) contracts, and custom designed domestic security and
weather systems, which are billable upon completion, are carried as costs and accrued
earnings on uncompleted contracts. 

Completed contract method     Revenues from the sale of traditional fire   security systems,
as well as battlefield effects simulators, are recognized when the installation is completed.
Security system maintenance contract revenues are recognized over the term of the contract
on a straight-line basis. Revenues from service work rendered are recorded when performed.
The elements of fire and security systems are separable into units of accounting in
accordance with EITF 00-21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.
The maintenance contracts are sold separately from the product and installation contracts and
are priced at market value. There are no provisions related to performance, cancellation,
termination or refunds. 

In the normal course of the Company s business, it does not bill shipping and handling costs to
customers. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. Costs of sales also
include inbound freight charges, purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs and warehousing
costs. No production costs are included in selling and administrative expense.

The Company records advances received from customers as a current liability.

Advertising.  Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. These costs are not material to the
Company s operations.

Research and Development.  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Such costs
include salaries and benefits, rents, supplies, and other costs related to various products under
development. Costs are also included in research and development for the Company s internally
developed software, which was not required to be capitalized as described below.

Capitalization of Internally Developed Software . The Company capitalizes internally developed
software systems in accordance with Statement of Position 98-1 (SOP 98-1),  Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use , which require that computer
software meeting the characteristics of internal-use software be capitalized once the preliminary
project stage has been completed. Once the capitalization criteria has been met, external direct
costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining internal-use computer
software; payroll and payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who
devote time to the internal-use computer software project and interest costs incurred when
developing computer software for internal use should be capitalized. During 2004, the Company
capitalized $342

F-16 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

of costs related to internally developed software systems in accordance with SOP
98-1. During 2005 and 2003, no costs were capitalized.

Warranties.  The Company grants warranties on certain products for periods varying from one to
five years. Provision is made for estimated losses arising from warranty claims on ammunition
products as incurred, based on a minimal level of claims historically for that segment. Provision
is made for estimated warranty costs on the sale of security, weather and environmental satellite
systems at the time of the sale. The reserves for warranty expense were not significant.

Income Taxes.  Income taxes are provided based on the liability method for financial reporting
purposes. Under this method, deferred and prepaid taxes are provided for on temporary differences
in the basis of assets and liabilities which are recognized in different periods for financial and
tax reporting purposes. Valuation allowances are provided if, based upon the weight of available
evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.

Earnings Per Common Share.  Basic earnings per share amounts have been computed based on the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share reflects the
increase in weighted average common shares outstanding that would result from the assumed exercise
of outstanding options, warrants, and convertible debt calculated using the treasury stock method,
unless they are anti-dilutive.

Detachable
Stock Purchase Warrants    In conjunction with debt financing, the Company has
periodically committed to issue detachable stock purchase warrants to creditors. In accordance
with EITF 00-19 the Company determines if warrants issued have the characteristics that would
require treatment as equity or a liability. The fair value of the warrants is determined by the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model at the date of issuance. Due to the terms of warrants the
Company has recorded warrants as both equity and liabilities. Warrants meeting the classification
of liabilities are recorded,at the fair value. Any gains or losses resulting from fluctuations in
the fair value are recognized in the period of change in earnings. In those situations where
warrants are classified as equity, the Company allocates proceeds received in a debt financing to
the debt and any detachable warrants based on their relative fair values.

The Company analyzes its convertible debt financings in accordance with SFAS 133 to determine if
any embedded features should be bifurcated. If the conversion feature is not required to be
bifurcated the Company applies EITF 00-27,  Application of Issue No. 98-5 to Certain Convertible
Instruments  and SFAS 133, as previously noted. EITF 98-5 clarifies the accounting for instruments
with beneficial conversion features and adjustable conversion ratios. The beneficial conversion
feature is calculated by allocating the proceeds received in the financing to the intrinsic value
based on the effective conversion price as a result of the allocated proceeds. The value of
the beneficial conversion feature is recognized as a discount and is amortized to interest expense
from the date of issuance to the stated redemption date.

Stock-Based
Compensation    The Company historically accounted for stock options using the
intrinsic value method by applying APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. 
Accordingly, compensation costs for stock options are measured and recorded as the excess, if any,
of the quoted market price of the Company s stock at the date of grant over the amount an employee
must pay to acquire the stock. Compensation cost for stock awards is recorded based on the quoted
market
value of the Company s stock at the time of grant. Stock based
compensation expense was $548, $538 and $562 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The following table presents the pro forma effect that would have been recorded had the fair
values of options granted been recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over
the vesting period of the grant:

F-17 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

Options granted during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were 120,000, 40,000, and
149,000 , respectively. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes options pricing model. The weighted-average fair values of each option at
the date of grant for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $8.42, $7.78 and $6.72, respectively. The weighted
average assumptions used in the model were as follows.

The pro forma amounts may not be representative of future amounts since the estimated fair value
of stock options is amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be
granted in future periods.

Beginning in 2006, FAS 123(R ) Share-Based Payment (as amended),  supersedes APB Opinion 25 and
requires that companies granting stock options to employees record the economic impact of these
options in the audited financial statements. Based on stock options granted to employees as of
December 31, 2005, Allied s stock compensation expense in relation to these would have been
approximately $457 before tax. The Company intends to implement FAS123(R) in the first quarter of
2006 using the  modified prospective  method and the Black-Scholes options pricing model. A
 modified prospective  method is a method in which compensation cost is recognized beginning with
the effective date a) based on the requirement of FAS 123(R) for all share-based payments granted
after the effective date and b) based on the requirement of FAS 123 (R) for all awards granted to
employees prior to the adoption of 123(R) that remain unvested at the adoption date.

Major Customers.  The Company derives the majority of its revenues directly or
indirectly from foreign governments (some of which are through the U.S. government via the Foreign
Military Sales program), primarily on fixed price contracts. Direct and indirect sales to
agencies of The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia accounted for approximately 44%, 56% and 58% of revenue in
2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.

Concentrations of Credit Risk . Financial instruments and related items which potentially subject
the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash
investments, trade receivables and costs and accrued earnings on uncompleted contracts. The
Company places its temporary cash investments with high credit quality financial
institutions.
Credit risk with respect to trade receivables and costs and accrued earnings on uncompleted
contracts are concentrated due to the nature of the Company s customer base. The Company
generally receives guarantees and letters of credit from its foreign customers and performs
ongoing credit evaluations of its other customers  financial condition. The Company s provision
for doubtful accounts for 2005 and 2004 was not significant.

The majority of ammunition sales are to or for the benefit of agencies of The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia and other foreign governments. MECAR s ammunition sales in any given period and its
backlog at any particular time may be significantly

F-18 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

influenced by one or a few large orders. In
addition, the production period required to fill most orders ranges from several months to a year.
Accordingly, MECAR s business is dependent upon its ability to obtain such large orders and the
required financing for these orders. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company s backlog
orders, believed to be firm, from operations, approximated $93,376 and $77,273, respectively. The
December 31, 2005 and 2004 backlogs included an unfunded portion of $8,330 and $9,445,
respectively, from an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) federal contract.

U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts are by their terms subject to termination by the
Government or the prime contractor either for convenience or for default. U.S. Government
sponsored foreign military sales contracts are subject to U.S. Government review. It is not
anticipated that adjustments, if any, with respect to determination of costs under these direct
contracts or subcontracts will have a material effect on the Company s consolidated results of
operations or financial position.

Amounts in foreign banks at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $10,704 and $34,529,
respectively. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar and other currencies affect the
Company s financial position and results of operations since the Company has assets and
operations in Belgium and sells its products on a worldwide basis.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
Instruments,  which amends SFAS 133 and SFAS 140. SFAS 155 permits hybrid financial instruments
that contain an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation to irrevocably be
accounted for at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the statement of income. The
fair value election may be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis. SFAS 155 also eliminates
a restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special purpose entity may
hold. SFAS 155 is effective for those financial instruments acquired or issued after December 1,
2006. At adoption, any difference between the total carrying amount of the individual components
of the existing bifurcated hybrid financial instrument and the fair value of the combined hybrid
financial instrument will be recognized as a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained
earnings. The Company adopted SFAS No. 155 in March 2006 in conjunction with its debt
refinancing. See Note Y   Subsequent Event.

In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 154,  Accounting for Changes and Error Corrections   a
replacement of Accounting Opinions Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  SFAS
No. 154 requires retrospective application to changes in accounting principles for prior periods 
financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects
or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and
corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, and earlier adoption
is permitted for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
this statement was issued.

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   an interpretation of SFAS No. 109 . FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty
in income taxes recognized in an entity s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 and
prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement disclosure of
tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006,
with early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt FIN 48 in fiscal 2007 and are currently
evaluating whether the adoption of FIN 48 will have a material effect on the Company s financial
condition or results of operations.

In December 2004, the FASB issued revised SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment . SFAS No. 123R sets
accounting requirements for share-based compensation to employees and requires companies to
recognize, in the income statement, the grant-date fair value of stock options and other
equity-based compensation. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R effective January 1, 2006.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 109-2,  Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the
Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,  which
provides a practical exception to the SFAS No. 109 requirement to reflect the effect of a new tax
law in the period of enactment by allowing additional time beyond the

F-19 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

financial reporting period to evaluate the effects on plans for reinvestment or repatriation of
unremitted foreign earnings. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) creates a
temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned outside the
United States by providing an 85% dividends-received deduction for certain dividends from
controlled foreign corporations. The Company s elected to utilize this deduction with respect to
its 2005 dividend from its foreign subsidiaries.

In, November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 151,  Inventory Costs   An Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter
4.  This Statement amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify
the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted
material (spoilage). Paragraph 5 of ARB 43, Chapter 4, previously stated that under some
circumstances, items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and
rehandling costs may be so abnormal as to require treatment as current period charges. This
Statement requires that those items be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether
they meet the criterion of  so abnormal.  In addition, this Statement requires that allocation of
fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. SFAS 151 is to be applied prospectively for inventory costs incurred
during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company s adoption of SFAS No. 151 is not
expected to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.

NOTE B   ACQUISITIONS 

Global Microwave Systems, Inc.   
On November 1, 2005, the Company acquired all of the common stock of Global Microwave Systems,
Inc. (GMS) in a transaction accounted for as a purchase. The Company purchased GMS to enhance the
Company s competitiveness within the electronic security segment as well as to leverage a suite of
technologies to deliver larger and more complex security solutions to its customers. The cost of
the acquisition was $19,736 and consisted of cash of $11,011, a note payable of $6,700 with an
unamortized discount of $528, common stock valued at $2,500 at the date of the acquisition, and
$53 in direct and incremental acquisition costs. The Company issued 118,072 unregistered shares
of its common stock valued at $21.17 per share, or $2,500 in total. Additional contingent
payments of up to $4,000 may be paid over a two-year period subject to the future profitability of
GMS and if made, this additional amount will be recorded as additional goodwill. As of December
31, 2005, the Company has not accrued for any contingent payment amounts. The Company s cash
payment in this acquisition was financed through a corresponding borrowing on its senior debt
facility as further described in Note L. The results of Global Microwave Systems, Inc. have been
consolidated since November 1, 2005. The results of GMS would not have a material impact on the
Company s operations on a pro forma basis for the periods presented. The following table
summarizes the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition of
GMS:

CMS Security Systems  
On August 1, 2004, VSK acquired all the common stock of CMS Security Systems in a transaction
accounted for as a purchase. This acquisition was undertaken to provide the Company with a
position in a high-growth segment of the North American

F-20 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
(Thousands of Dollars) 

Electronic Security market. The cost
of the acquisition was $400 of cash. VSK entered into a $300 loan to fund the acquisition.
The loan is payable in equal installments on August 1, 2005, 2006, and 2007. The results of
CMS Security Systems have been consolidated since its acquisition on August 1, 2004. The
acquisition of CMS Security Systems did not have a material impact on the Company s
operations. The following table summarizes the fair value of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in the acquisition of CMS Security Systems:

Intangible Weighted 

Allocation 

Average Useful Life 

Current assets

$ 
     69 

Property and equipment

23 

Intangibles (Customer list)

50 

7 years 

Goodwill

449 

Indefinite 

Total assets acquired

$ 
     591 

Current liabilities

(172 
     ) 

Deferred tax liability

(19 
     ) 

Net assets acquired

$ 
     400 

NOTE C
  CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 

In 2005, MECAR changed its methodology of applying the percentage of completion method for the
recognition of revenue in an effort to better reflect the revenue
recognized during the life of a
sales contract. Although upon contract completion both methods would
yield the same results, the Company felt that the direct labor method
is preferable. Previously, MECAR used total direct costs as the basis for recognizing revenue.
In 2005, MECAR changed the basis for recognition to direct labor rather than total direct costs.
The Company has accounted for this as a change in accounting principle effective January 1, 2005
and the cumulative effect, based on a retroactive computation, of the accounting change of $5,293,
net of a tax benefit of $2,726, was recognized in 2005. The cumulative effect of this change represents
the difference between the amount of retained earnings at the beginning of the period of change
and the amount of retained earnings that would have been reported at the date if the new
accounting principle had been applied retroactively for all prior periods. The table below
provides the pro forma impact of the change in this accounting principle as if the change had been
in place throughout all years reported.

F-21 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

NOTE D   RESTRICTED CASH 

Restricted Cash at December 31 is comprised as follows:

MECAR is generally required under the terms of its contracts with foreign governments
and its distributor to provide performance bonds and advance payment guarantees.
The credit facility agreements used to provide these financial guarantees place
restrictions on certain cash deposits and other liens on MECAR s assets. In addition,
certain customers make advance deposits and require MECAR s bank to restrict up to forty
percent of the advance deposit as collateral. The majority of the restricted cash balance
relates to requirements under our sales contracts to provide performance bonds and advance payment
guarantees. These instruments typically expire within one year or operating cycle and the
restriction on the cash is released. As such, the restricted cash is classified as current
for the periods presented. Restricted cash of $5,393 and $9,227 at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, was restricted or pledged as collateral for these agreements.

NOTE E   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND COSTS   ACCRUED EARNINGS ON UNCOMPLETED CONTRACTS 

Accounts receivable at December 31 are comprised as follows:

Receivables from foreign government and government agencies are generally due within 30 days of
shipment, less a 10% hold back provision which is generally due within 90 days. Since these
receivables are typically supported by letters of credit or other guarantees, no provision
for doubtful accounts is deemed necessary. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful
accounts on commercial receivables, which is determined based on historical experience and
management s expectations of future losses. Losses have historically been within management s
expectations.

Costs and accrued earnings on uncompleted contracts totaled $35,178 and $41,420 at December
31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The revenue recognized on the contracts in progress for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $81,301 $115,463, and $125,211
respectively. The revenue recognized from the contracts in progress generally are not billed
until products are completed and delivered.

F-22  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

NOTE F
  INVENTORIES 

Inventories at December 31 are comprised as follows:

NOTE G
  PROPERTY, PLANT   EQUIPMENT 

Property, Plant   Equipment at December 31 are comprised as follows:

Depreciation expense was $5,279, $4,093 and $3,592 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003, respectively.

Capital Leases. The Company leases equipment under various capital leases, with lease terms
through 2010. The economic substance of the leases is that the Company is financing the
acquisition of the assets through the leases, and accordingly, they are recorded in the Company s
assets and liabilities.

The following is an analysis of the leased property under capital leases included in property
plant and equipment:

The following is a schedule by years of future minimum lease payments under capital leases
together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2005:

F-23  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

NOTE H
  INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Intangible assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are comprised as follows:

Consolidated amortization expense related to intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for 2005, 2004
and 2003 was $803, $467 and $445, respectively. Estimated future aggregate annual amortization
for intangible assets is as follows:

NOTE I   GOODWILL 

As required by SFAS No. 142, the Company performs, at the component level of the segments, a
review each year or earlier if an indicator of potential impairment of goodwill exists. The
impairment review is based on a discounted cash flow approach that uses estimates of future cash
flows discounted at the Company s weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used are
consistent with the plans and estimates that the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses.

Goodwill for each segment at December 31 is as follows:

F-24  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

The Electronic Security segment goodwill experienced a net increase in 2005 resulting from a
$5,964 increase related to the acquisition of Global Microwave Systems. The Other segment
reflects the $3,060 impairment write-down of SeaSpace. During 2005, the Company determined that
the carrying amount of goodwill attributed to SeaSpace exceeded its fair value, which was
estimated based on (1) present value of expected future cash inflows and (2) market
capitalization. Accordingly, a goodwill impairment expense was recognized at SeaSpace.

The Other segment goodwill acquired in 2004 is associated with final adjustments of the 2002
SeaSpace acquisition. The Electronic Security segment increase in goodwill of $449 related to the
acquisition of CMS Security Systems in 2004. The 2004 deferred tax asset adjustment for the
Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment is related to the removal of Titan  valuation allowance.

NOTE J   BANK OVERDRAFT CREDIT FACILITY 

Credit Facility   MECAR is obligated under an agreement (the Agreement), executed March 2002, with
its foreign banking syndicate that provides credit facilities of up to 49,400 Euros (approximately
$58,500 USD) primarily for bank guarantees including performance bonds, letters of credit and
similar instruments required for specific sales contracts, as well as a line of credit for tax
prepayments and working capital. The Agreement was modified in 2006 with the result that the
available credit facility has been reduced to 42,850 Euros (approximately $50,750 USD). The
Agreement provides for certain bank charges and fees as the facility is used, plus fees of 2% of
guarantees issued and quarterly fees at an annual rate of 1.25% of guarantees outstanding. These
fees are charged to interest expense. The interest rate as of
December 31, 2005 was Libor   2.75% or
approximately 6.02%. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, guarantees and performance bonds of
approximately $27,538 and $25,779, respectively, were outstanding. Advances for working capital
and tax pre-payments provided for under the bank overdraft facility, amounted to $15,086 and
$5,553 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Advances under the Agreement are
secured by restricted cash of approximately $5,393 and $9,228 at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.
MECAR is generally required under the terms of its contracts with foreign governments and its
distributor to provide performance bonds and advance payment guarantees. The credit facility
agreement is used to provide these financial guarantees and in turn places restrictions on certain
cash deposits and other liens on MECAR s assets. In addition, certain customers make advance
deposits and require MECAR s bank to restrict up to forty percent of the advance deposit as
collateral. The majority of the restricted cash balance relates to requirements under our sales
contracts to provide performance bonds and advance payment guarantees.
Amounts outstanding are also collateralized by the letters of credit received under
the contracts financed, and a pledge on MECAR s assets
of approximately $41,000 of MECARs assets. The Agreement has an
annual term but is cancellable by either party on 90 days
notice. The Agreement requires that MECAR maintains certain
net worth and working capital covenants. As of December 31, 2005 MECAR was not in compliance with
the facility covenants, The Company is in the process of renegotiating the terms and covenants of
the agreement. The banks continue to lend cash and extend guarantees while the renegotiation is
taking place. New terms are expected to be in the place by December, 2006.

NOTE K   ACCRUED LOSSES ON CONTRACTS, DEFERRED COMPENSATION  AND WARRANTY RESERVES

Accrued losses on contracts.  At December 31, 2005, the provision for accrued losses on contracts
calculated to $0. The Company provided for accrued losses of $726 at December 31, 2004 in
connection with the completion of certain contracts in progress as of year end that were to be
completed in 2005. These amounts are included in accrued liabilities.

Deferred compensation.  The December 31, 2005 deferred compensation balance represents cash compensation deferred by the non-employee directors. The December 31, 2004 balance
represents cash and stock compensation deferred by non-employee directors in addition to a
post-employment obligation to a Company employee, which was paid in early 2005.

Accrued Warranty Costs.  At December 31, 2005 the Company provided $819 for accrued costs
related to warranties. The balance at December 31, 2004 was $912. These amounts are included in
accrued liabilities.

F-25  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

NOTE L   LONG-TERM DEBT 

Long-term obligations as of December 31 consist of the following:

Notes payable.  On May 28, 2004 the Company obtained a senior loan facility from an accredited
lender under which the Company could borrow up to $18,000 for acquisitions and working capital.
At closing, the Company borrowed $2,000 and deposited $2,000 in a restricted account to secure the
repayment. An additional draw of $12,000 was made against this facility in November 2005, which
was used for the acquisition of GMS. All loans under the facility bear interest at the rate of
11.5% per year payable quarterly. Principal was payable in sixty equal monthly payments that
commenced in late December 2005. The Company paid a fee on the unused portion of the facility.
Warrants exercisable at $0.01 per share to purchase 4,000 shares of the Company s common stock
were issued at closing and were valued at $68. In November 2005, warrants exercisable at $0.01 per
share to purchase 24,000 shares were issued pursuant to the senior loan facility and were valued
at $487. All warrants issued in conjunction with this facility have an expiration date of May 28,
2012. The facility was secured by first priority security interest, subject only to permitted
liens, in substantially all of the Company s domestic tangible and intangible assets. The Company
also incurred $860 of closing costs related to this note payable. The note draw down period
extended to November 28, 2005 and the five year amortization period began at that time. The final
payment on the note was scheduled for October 2010. At December 31, 2005, the Company was not
compliant with the covenants of this facility. The facility was paid in full and refinanced in
March 2006, this note has been classified, in accordance with SFAS No. 6, as long term debt as of
December 31, 2005.

Note payable refinancing    In March 2006, the Company refinanced the notes payable that were
outstanding at December 31, 2005 and the senior loan facility was repaid in full. As described
more completely in Note Y as a subsequent event, the purchasers of the new notes payable
received subordinated convertible notes in the principal amount of $30,000 and 226,800 warrants to
purchase common stock of the Company. The Note will initially accrue interest at a rate of 7.5%
per annum with accrued interest payable quarterly in arrears in cash. The Note has a provision for
the interest rate to step down to 5% per annum once
certain financial and registration milestones are achieved. The Note will mature in March 2011 and
are convertible into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $26.46 per share, subject to
various terms and restrictions. The warrants issued in conjunction with the refinancing will
expire on March 9, 2011.

Note payable for GMS acquisition.  On November 1, 2005, the Company entered into a $6,700 unsecured
note payable to fund the acquisition of GMS. This note was taken back by the seller. There are no
significant covenants. The note is payable in equal annual installments over three years bearing interest at
the rate of 7.5% per year payable quarterly. The discount of the note was $527.

Mortgage loan Agreements.  The Company is also obligated on several mortgages on VSK s buildings
which have a total balance due of $193 at December 31, 2005 and $284 at December 31, 2004. The
note is secured by the asset that has been financed. There are no significant covenants. The mortgages
mature at various dates through 2009, plus interest at rates ranging from 3.9% to 4.5% per year.

Loan for CMS Security Systems acquisition.  VSK entered into a $300 unsecured loan to fund the acquisition of
CMS Security Systems in August 2004. There are no significant covenants. The
loan is payable in equal installments on August 1, 2005, 2006, and 2007 and had outstanding
balances of $200 and $300 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Notes Payable.  Notes Payable   At December 31, 2005, MECAR borrowed $592 related to a carve out of the overdraft facility with one of the banks in their banking facility to pay capital
lease obligations. In addition, NSM had a note for machinery and vehicles of $26 and $54 at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The weighted average interest rate for Notes Payable
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 3%. The terms and security
are consistent with the MECAR credit facility.

Capital Leases and Other.  The Company is also obligated on various vehicle, equipment, capital
lease obligations and other loans. The notes and leases are generally collateralized by the
assets acquired, bear interest at rates ranging from 3.50% to 8.00% and mature at various dates
through 2010.

The annual maturities of long-term obligations as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:

F-26  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

See subsequent events Note Y for a description of the Notes Payable Refinancing that
was completed in March 2006.

NOTE M   CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURE 

Convertible Subordinated Debenture.  On June 28, 2002 the Company sold to an accredited investor
for $7,500 (i), an 8% subordinated debenture convertible into shares of the Company s common stock
at $25.00 per share and (ii) warrants to purchase 15,000 shares of the Company s common stock at
an exercise price of $28.75 per share in cash. The warrants to purchase 15,000 shares of the
Company s common stock were valued at $140 and expired on June 28, 2006. The Company registered
the shares of common stock that could be issued in the event the holder elected to convert the
debenture and exercise the warrants. The final payment on the debenture was made in March 2005.

NOTE N   BENEFIT PLANS 

In 2003, the Company adopted a 401(k) plan. Employer contributions to the plans in 2005, 2004 and
2003 were approximately $135, $96, and $108, respectively. Employee contributions to the plan in
2005 were $102. Under the terms of labor agreements at its Belgian subsidiaries, the Company
contributes to certain governmental and labor organization employee benefit and retirement
programs.

NOTE O   CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS 

A suit has been filed against one of the VSK subsidiaries in the Belgian courts for failure to
honor a contracted agreement. The suit demands damages of approximately $130. Management intends
to vigorously defend this suit and believes that it has meritorious defense to the claim, and
therefore no loss provision has been established. The Belgian Court will hold its first hearing
on the matter in October 2006.

The Company has entered into consulting and employment agreements with certain management
personnel at the Company s subsidiaries and with certain domestic management personnel. Certain
of these agreements provide for severance payments in the event of termination under certain
conditions.

The Company leases domestic office space and equipment under operating leases which expire at
various dates through 2013. Certain leases also include escalation provisions for taxes and
operating costs. The following is a schedule by year of base expense due on operating leases that
have initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2005:

Total rental expense charged to operations approximated $860, $387 and $356, for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-27  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

The Company s domestic operations do not provide post employment benefits to its employees. Under
Belgian labor provisions, the Company may be obligated for future severance costs for its
employees. After giving effect to prior workforce reductions, current workloads, expected levels
of future operations, severance policies and future severance costs, post employment benefits are
not expected to be material to the Company s financial position.

NOTE P   FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company s financial instruments include cash, receivables,
payables, borrowings, forward exchange contracts, guarantees and performance bonds. The face
value of cash, receivables and payables approximate their carrying values because of the
short-term nature of the instruments. The estimated fair value of the other financial instruments
and off-balance-sheet credit obligations are as follows:

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of
financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.

The fair value of notes payable and long-term obligations is estimated based on
approximate market prices for the same or similar issues or the current rates offered to the
Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The Company believes the aggregate
carrying value approximates fair value. 

The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on the mark to market calculations
performed at the end of each period. The balance sheet at December 31, 2005 and 2004
includes the fair value of MECAR s forward contracts of $1,161 liability and $1,195 asset,
respectively. The fair value of VSK s forward contracts was $5 and $28 at December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. 

Estimated fair values for off-balance-sheet instruments, which include performance bonds
and advance payment guarantees are reflected at the face value of these obligations, since
management does not expect to have any claims against these obligations based on its past
experience. 

NOTE Q   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

Derivatives and hedging 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exposure. As a
matter of policy, the Company does not enter into speculative hedge contracts or use other
derivative financial instruments. To qualify for hedge accounting, the details of the hedging
relationship must be formally documented at inception of the arrangement, including the risk
management objective, hedging strategy, hedged item, specific risks that are being hedged, the
derivative instrument and how effectiveness will be measured. The derivative must be highly
effective in offsetting either changes in fair value or cash flows, as appropriate, for the risk
being hedged. Effectiveness is evaluated on a retrospective and prospective basis. If a hedge
relationship becomes ineffective, it no longer qualifies as a hedge. Any excess gains or losses
attributable to such ineffectiveness, as well as subsequent changes in the fair value of the
derivative, are recognized in net earnings.

F-28  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

Fair value hedges 

Fair value hedges are hedges that eliminate the risk of changes in the fair values of assets,
liabilities and certain types of firm commitments. The Company uses foreign currency forward
contracts to minimize the foreign currency exposures with debt, which is payable in U.S. dollars
rather than the Euro. At December 31, 2005, VSK designated a forward contract as a fair value
hedge with a notional amount of $200 and the fair value of the contracts was $5. The derivative
was entered into on August 1, 2005 and expires July 31,
2006. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from derivative
contracts are reported in earnings. There were no net gains or
losses realized during the year ended December 31, 2005 from hedge ineffectiveness or from firm
commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.

Cash flow hedges 

Cash flow hedges are hedges that offset the changes of expected future cash flows. The Company
has not designated any hedging relationships as cash flow hedges.

Derivatives not designated as hedges 

The Company uses foreign currency futures contracts to minimize the foreign currency exposures
that arise from sales contracts with certain foreign customers. Under the terms of these sales
contracts, the selling price and certain costs are payable in U.S. dollars rather than the Euro,
which is MECAR s functional currency. As discussed in Note A, the Company s accounting for
foreign currency exchange contracts at MECAR did not comply with the guidelines of FAS 133. As
such, realized and unrealized gains from derivative contracts are reported as a component of
revenues and amounted to ($7,785), $3,698 and $13,625 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003, respectively.

Counterparty credit risk 

The Company s foreign exchange forward contracts expose the Company to credit risks to the extent
that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. The Company minimizes
such risk by using major financial institutions as its counterparties. Management does not expect
any material loss as result of default by counterparties.

NOTE R   STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

The Company has various equity compensation plans for employees as well as non-employee members of
the board of directors. The Company may grant stock options, stock appreciation rights,
incentive and non-statutory options, performance shares and other awards to key executives,
management, directors and employees under various plans at prices equal to or in excess of the
market price at the date of the grant. The options for common shares generally are exercisable
over a five to ten year period and expire up to ten years from the date of grant. The equity
compensation plans consist of the following:

2001 Equity Incentive Plan.  During 2001, the Board of Directors and stockholders approved and
reserved 240,000 shares of common stock for awards to key employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries. In each of 2002, 2003 and 2005, the Board of Directors and the stockholders
authorized the plan to be increased by 250,000 shares. The plan authorizes the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors to grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
stock, performance shares and cash awards. Each type of grant places certain requirements and
restrictions upon the Company and grantee. Total stock awards in 2005 were 54,729 shares of which
50,046 shares were grants to certain key employees and 4,683 shares were issued to non-employee
directors. For 2004, stock awards totaled 5,753 shares of which 1,747 shares were grants to
certain key employees and
4,006 shares were issued to non-employee directors. Restricted shares generally vest over
periods of one to five years from the date of award. As of December 31, 2005, total restricted
shares of 51,793 shares were reserved for certain employees, which will vest with continued
service to the Company per the vesting schedule.

1997 Incentive Stock Plan.  During 1997, the Board of Directors and stockholders approved and
reserved 225,000 shares of common stock for awards to key employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries in the form of stock options and stock awards. The Plan is administered by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries
who are deemed to be key employees by the Committee are eligible for awards under the Plan.

1992 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.  During 1992, the Board of Directors and stockholders approved
and reserved 525,000 shares for the plan. The plan is voluntary and substantially all full-time
employees are eligible to participate through payroll

F-29  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

deductions. The purchase price of each
share is equal to 85% of the closing price of the common stock at the end of each calendar
quarter. The Plan is subject to certain restrictions and the Board may amend or terminate it at
any time. With the adoption of SFAS 123R, Share Based Payment, at January 1, 2006, the Company
will begin to recognize the compensation cost related to the plan. The Company does not believe
the compensation cost of this plan will be significant.

Rights Agreement.  The Board of Directors adopted a Rights Agreement in 2001 and amended the
agreement in June, 2006. The Agreement provides each stockholder of record a dividend
distribution of one  right  for each outstanding share of common stock. Rights become exercisable
the earlier of ten days following: (1) a public announcement that an acquiring person has
purchased or has the right to acquire 20% or more of the Company s common stock, or (2) the
commencement of a tender offer which would result in an offeror beneficially owning 20% or more of
the outstanding common stock. All rights held by an acquiring person or offeror expire on the
announced acquisition date and all rights expire at the close of business on May 31, 2011.

Each right under the Rights Agreement entitles a stockholder to acquire at a purchase price of
$50, one-hundredth of a share of preferred stock which carries voting and dividend rights similar
to one share of common stock. Alternatively, a right holder may elect to purchase for $50 an
equivalent number of common shares (or in certain circumstances, cash, property or other
securities of the Company) at a price per share equal to one-half of the average market price for
a specified period. In lieu of the purchase price, a right holder may elect to acquire one-half
of the common shares available under the second option. The purchase price and the preferred
share fractional amount are subject to adjustment for certain events as described in the
Agreement.

Rights also entitle the holder to receive a specified number of shares of an acquiring company s
common stock in the event that the Company is not the surviving corporation in a merger or if 50%
or more of the Company s assets are sold or transferred.

At the discretion of a majority of the Board and within a specified time period, the Company may
redeem all of the rights at a price of $.01 per right. The Board may also amend any provision of
the Agreement prior to exercise of the rights.

The following table summarizes option activity:  

F-30  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

The following table summarizes options outstanding at December 31, 2005:  

NOTE S   OTHER   NET 

Other income (expense) included in the Company s consolidated statements of earnings is comprised
of the following:

Miscellaneous   net includes bank charges related to MECAR s performance bonds and advance payment
guarantees, which are generally required under the terms of MECAR s contracts with foreign
governments and its distributor.

NOTE T   INCOME TAXES 

The Company recognizes deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax
consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements or tax
returns. Under this method, deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the
difference between the consolidated financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted
tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.

Earnings (loss) before income taxes is comprised as follows:

The Company s provision for income taxes is comprised of:

The Company s provision for income taxes differs from the anticipated United States federal
statutory rate. Differences between the statutory rate and the Company s provision are as
follows:

F-31  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

The components of the deferred taxes at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are comprised as follows:

At December 31, 2005, the Company had U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$16,133 which will begin to expire in 2010 and foreign NOLs of approximately $15,493 which may be
carried forward indefinitely. A portion of the U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are subject
to limitations on the amount that can be utilized each year. As of December 31, 2005, the Company
also had foreign tax credits and alternative minimum tax credits of
approximately $2,368 and $458,
respectively. The foreign tax credits will begin to expire in 2010 and the alternative minimum
tax credits do not expire.

The Company regularly reviews the recoverability of its deferred tax assets and establishes a
valuation allowance as deemed appropriate. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon
generation of sufficient income by the Company in the jurisdictions in which it has operations
and, in some cases, by specific office locations. Because the Company experienced losses in the
U.S. in previous years and continued U.S. losses in the current year, management recorded a
valuation allowance of approximately $12,784 against its U.S. net deferred tax asset as of as of
December 31, 2005. The change in the valuation allowance from December 31, 2004 to December 31,
2005 was an increase of $11,318, which is due primarily to the valuation allowance recorded
against the U.S. net deferred tax assets during 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the portion of
the valuation allowance for which subsequently recognized tax benefits will increase stockholders 
equity was $342.

F-32  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

As
of December 31, 2005, the Company has not recorded U.S. income tax expense for $32,730 of
unremitted earnings of its foreign subsidiaries for which it has designated as indefinitely
reinvested. The amount of earnings designated as indefinitely reinvested offshore is based upon
the actual deployment of such earnings in our offshore assets and our expectations of the future
cash needs of our U.S. and foreign entities. In the event that actual cash needs of our U.S.
entities exceed our current expectations, we may need to repatriate foreign earnings which have
been designated as indefinitely reinvested offshore. This could result in additional income tax
expense being recorded.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) created a temporary incentive for U.S.
corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned outside the United States by providing an 85%
dividends-received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The
Company elected to utilize this deduction in 2005.

The Jobs Act also included a qualified manufacturing deduction that applies to domestic
manufacturers. The deduction, when fully phased in, will provide a deduction of up to 9% of
qualified manufacturing income. The deduction cannot be claimed by companies in a net operating
loss carryforward position. Therefore, the Company did not claim a 2005 benefit related to the
qualified manufacturing deduction. The Company has not quantified the impact of the qualified
manufacturing deduction that it can use once the net operating loss carryforward has been fully
used.

NOTE U   EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 

Basic earnings per share exclude dilution and are computed by dividing net earnings by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. The computation of diluted
earnings per share includes the effects of convertible debentures, stock options, warrants and
restricted stock (unvested stock awards), if such effect is dilutive. The table below shows the
calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively:

For
the year ended December 31, 2005, warrants, stock options and
restricted stock shares of 6,956, 181,740 and 390, respectively, were
excluded from the calculation of earnings per share since their effect would be
anti-dilutive. During 2004 and 2003, common stock equivalents of 245,819
related to convertible debentures of 245,819 and 300,000 were excluded since their impact
would be anti-dilutive. In addition, 15,000 warrants associated with the
Riverview convertible debenture financing were excluded from the earnings per share calculation
in each of 2005, 2004 and 2003 since the strike price of $28.05
exceeded the average share prices for each of those years respectively.

F-33  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

In accordance with SFAS No. 128,  Earnings Per Share , the Company calculates the dilutive effect,
if any, of restricted stock awards using the treasury stock method to calculate equivalent
weighted average shares outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, 51,793 shares of Restricted Stock
had been awarded to employees in 2004 and 2005.

NOTE V   GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND INDUSTRY SEGMENTS 

In late 2005, Allied changed the composition of its business structure from the four segments used
for management and reporting purposes in prior years into two primary operating segments in order
to more accurately reflect the strategic focus of the Company. In conformity with SFAS No. 131,
 Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information  the Company s segment
information is presented on the basis that management uses in evaluating segment performance. As
required under SFAS 131, the Company has restated all prior period segment information to be
consistent with the 2005 segment reporting.

The new operating segments are Ammunition   Weapons Effects and Electronic Security:

Ammunition   Weapons Effects segment consists of MECAR, MECAR USA and Titan. MECAR develops and
produces medium caliber tank, mortar and other ammunition. MECAR USA will initially pursue
contracts from the U.S. government and others for ammunition and pyrotechnics devices. MECAR USA
became operational in the third quarter of 2005. Titan designs, manufactures and sells
battlefield effects simulators, minor pyrotechnics, and other training devices.

Electronic Security segment consists of VSK, NSM, and GMS. VSK Electronics N.V. manufactures
access control, intrusion protection, fire detection and video systems; T l  Technique G n rale
S.A. installs security systems; Intelligent Data Capturing Systems N.V. manufactures integrated
video systems; VIGITEC S.A. installs networked video surveillance systems; and CMS Security
Systems manufactures access control systems. NSM designs, manufactures, distributes and services
industrial and law enforcement security products and systems. Global Microwave Systems designs
and manufactures miniature and sub-miniature FM and digital transmitters, receivers, and related
equipment for investigative, surveillance, and security applications, and live TV
news/sports/entertainment coverage.

The
Other segment consists of SeaSpace, which designs, manufactures, distributes and services weather and environmental
satellite ground reception systems, as well as a line of antennas is reported as Other. It was
formerly 100% of the Environmental Safety and Security segment.

Allied, the parent Company, provides management and other services to its subsidiaries and has no
operating activities. Significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

The Company s foreign operations are conducted by MECAR and VSK.

F-34  

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

(1)     Amounts net of intersegment receivables.  

F-35 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

The following geographic area data includes trade revenues based on customer location and
assets based on physical location.

(1)    
       
       Includes foreign military sales for the benefit of Saudi Arabia.   

(1)    
       
       Net of inter-segment receivables and investments.   

NOTE W   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 

The following significant pre-tax adjustments were made in the fourth quarter of 2005:

Impairment to SeaSpace Goodwill

$ 
     3,060 

NSM physical inventory adjustment

1.157 

Write off of in process R D expenses related to November 2005 acquisition

944 

Increase to corporate audit accrual

870 

SeaSpace physical inventory adjustment

422 

Total fourth quarter significant adjustments   pretax

$ 
     6,453 

In addition, the Company booked, also in the fourth quarter of 2002, a tax valuation allowance
for the U.S. operations of $9,359 and an accrual for a tax audit at MECAR for $560.

The tables below reconcile the 2005 quarterly data as previously reported to the restated
quarterly data above.

March 31, 2005 

(1) Impact of correcting for the failure to comply with the documentation requirements of FAS
133, hedge accounting, for changing the exchange rates to period end spot rates at the Company s
MECAR subsidiary for its foreign currency transactions and other adjustments related to sales
contracts.

(2) Impact of correcting the measurement date for options granted in February 2002 by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company that were subject to subsequent
stockholder approval that was obtained in June 2002.

(3) Impact of change in accounting principle on revenue recognition at the Company s MECAR
subsidiary.

(4) Shares Outstanding for the period were restated to correct for deferred compensation for the
outside directors that was stock based that had been incorrectly excluded from the earnings per
share calculation in the period.

June 30, 2005 

(1) Impact of correcting for the failure to comply with the documentation requirements of FAS
133, hedge accounting, for changing the exchange rates to period end spot rates at the Company s
MECAR subsidiary for its foreign currency transactions and other adjustments related to sales
contracts.

(2) Impact of correcting the measurement date for options granted in February 2002 by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company that were subject to subsequent
stockholder approval that was obtained in June 2002.

(3) Impact of change in accounting principle on revenue recognition at the Company s MECAR
subsidiary.

(4) Shares Outstanding for the period were restated to correct for deferred compensation for the
outside directors that was stock based that had been incorrectly excluded from the earnings per
share calculation in the period.

September 30, 2005 

(1) Impact of correcting for the failure to comply with the documentation requirements of FAS
133, hedge accounting, for changing the exchange rates to period end spot rates at the Company s
MECAR subsidiary for its foreign currency transactions and other adjustments related to sales
contracts.

(2) Impact of correcting the measurement date for options granted in February 2002 by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company that were subject to subsequent
stockholder approval that was obtained in June 2002.

(3) Impact of change in accounting principle on revenue recognition at the Company s MECAR
subsidiary.

(4) Shares Outstanding for the period were restated to correct for deferred compensation for the
outside directors that was stock based that had been incorrectly excluded from the earnings per
share calculation in the period.

December 31, 2005 

(1) Impact of correcting for the failure to comply with the documentation requirements of FAS
133, hedge accounting, for changing the exchange rates to period end spot rates at the Company s
MECAR subsidiary for its foreign currency transactions and other adjustments related to sales
contracts.

(2) Impact of correcting the measurement date for options granted in February 2002 by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company that were subject to subsequent
stockholder approval that was obtained in June 2002.
(3) Impact of change in accounting principle on revenue recognition at the Company s MECAR
subsidiary.
(4) Shares Outstanding for the period were restated to correct for deferred compensation for the
outside directors that was stock based that had been incorrectly excluded from the earnings per
share calculation in the period.

F-36 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

NOTE X   OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTION 

In 2005 the Company and the Marshall Economic Development Corporation (MEDCO)entered into an
agreement under which MEDCO agreed to provide funds for the build out of the initial MECAR USA
facilities. MEDCO is a state funded organization chartered to assist in the creation of
manufacturing jobs in the Marshall, Texas areas by facilitating the construction of roads and
buildings for companies willing to locate manufacturing facilities in the local area.. As part of
the incentive package, MEDCO contributed $500 to MECAR USA toward the construction of facilities
(used predominately for the installation of roads and utilities) and $1,650 worth of land to house
these facilities. The Company provided $640 towards the construction of the initial buildings
which was capitalized and is being amortized as an asset over the term of the lease, The
agreement between the Company and MEDCO calls for a ten year lease, commencing October 1, 2004 at
a total lease cost of $1 (one dollar) with a buyout option for the building and land at the end
of the lease provided certain hiring targets are achieved. If at the end of the lease term the
Company has created at least 175 full time jobs at the Marshall facility (at MECAR USA and Titon),
MEDCO will convey title to the land and the facilities for which they provided funding, to the
Company without any additional payment by the Company. If at the end of the lease term the
Company has continuously occupied and used the facilities but has not fully met the 175 job goal,
the Company will have the option to purchase the land and facilities at a price to be computed
based on the actual number of full time jobs created. The purchase price will be equal to 175
minus the actual number of full time jobs created as of October 2014 times $9,750 dollars.

NOTE Y   SUBSEQUENT EVENT 

In March 2006, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the  Agreement ) with
several purchasers for the private placement of Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes (the
 Notes ) in the principal amount of $30,000 and related warrants to purchase common stock. In
connection with the Agreement the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with the
purchasers.

The Notes will accrue interest at a rate of 7.5% per annum, subject to adjustment, with accrued
interest payable quarterly in arrears in cash. The Notes mature on March 9, 2011, and the Notes
are convertible into shares of common stock of Allied at a conversion price of $26.46, subject to
anti-dilution provisions, as well as for adjustment for stock splits. Upon a change of control as
defined in the Notes, the holders of the Notes will have certain redemption rights.

In connection with the issuance of the Notes, the Company issued detachable warrants (the
 warrants ) to the Purchasers exercisable for an aggregate of 226,800 shares of Allied common
stock. The Warrants are exercisable for a term of five years at an exercise price of $27.68 per
share, subject to anti-dilution provisions similar to the provisions set forth in the Notes and
expire on March 9, 2011.

Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Allied will file a registration statement to cover
the resale of the Conversion Shares and the Warrant Shares. In connection with the Transactions,
Allied has also agreed to pay certain fees and expenses (including warrants) to the placement
agent, Cowen   Co., LLC for its activity engaged on behalf of Allied.

The Company determined that the Notes are hybrid instruments and the warrants are derivatives that
should be carried at fair value, with any changes in fair value reported as gains or losses in
subsequent periods. The notes were deemed to have embedded derivatives with the terms of the
agreement and such derivatives were bifurcated from the notes. In March, 2006, the Company
adopted SFAS 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments , which allows the Company to make
irrevocable election to initially and subsequently measure a hybrid
financial instrument in its entirety at fair value after having identified all embedded derivative
features, contained in a hybrid instrument. The Company identified and documented the embedded
derivative features, and the irrevocably elected to measure and carry the notes at fair value. At
March 9, 2006, the fair value of the notes was calculated to be $29,120.

The Warrants did not meet the requirement for equity classification in accordance with SFAS 133,
 Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities , mainly because the Warrants are required to
settle in registered shares of the Company s common stock.

The Warrants were recorded as a
derivative instrument and will be recorded and carried at the fair value of the instrument. At
March 9, 2006, the fair value of the Warrants was $2,014.

F-37 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
(Parent Company) 

BALANCE SHEETS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 
December 31, 

F-38 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT   CONTINUED 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
(Parent Company) 

STATEMENTS
OF OPERATIONS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 
Year ended December 31, 

F-39 

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT   CONTINUED 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
(Parent Company) 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
Year ended December 31, 

F-40 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
(in thousands) 

Years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

(1)    
       
       Represents amount of reserve relieved through completion of
contracts.   

(2)    
       
       Represents write-off of receivables.   

(3)    
       
       Represents amounts of valuation allowance relieved through use of
deferred tax assets.   

F-41 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

<EX-18.1>
 2
 w25671exv18w1.htm
 EX-18.1

exv18w1 

Exhibit 18.1  

October 5, 2006

Mr. Robert P. Dowski 
Chief Financial Officer 
The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
8000 Towers Crescent Drive, Suite 260 
Vienna, Virginia 22182

Dear Mr. Dowski:

As stated in Note A to the financial statements of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. for the year
ended December 31, 2005, the Company changed its method of accounting for revenue and cost of sales
under certain production-type contracts at the Company s MECAR SA subsidiary by changing its method
for determining the percentage of completion and states that the newly adopted accounting principle
is preferable in the circumstances because it more appropriately reflects the stage of
completion of its contracts. In connection with our audit of the above mentioned financial
statements, we have evaluated the circumstances and the business judgment and planning which
formulated your basis to make the change in accounting principle.

It should be understood that criteria have not been established by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board for selecting from among the alternative accounting principles that exist in this
area. Further, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants has not established the
standards by which an auditor can evaluate the preferability of one accounting principle among a
series of alternatives. However, for purposes of the Company s compliance with the requirements of
the Securities and Exchange Commission, we are furnishing this letter.

Based on our audit, we concur in management s judgment that the newly adopted accounting principle
described in Note A is preferable in the circumstances. In formulating this position, we are
relying on management s business planning and judgment, which we do not find to be unreasonable.

Very truly yours,

BDO Seidman, LLP

E-3 

</EX-18.1>

<EX-21>
 3
 w25671exv21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES 

1. 
       
     ARC Europe, S.A., a Belgian Corporation 

Wholly-owned and majority owned Belgian subsidiaries of ARC Europe S.A.

A. 
       
     MECAR S.A. 

B. 
       
     Sedachim S.I., S.A. 

C. 
       
     VSK Electronics N.V. 

(1) 
       
     Belgian Automation Units, N.V 

(2) 
       
     Intelligent Data Capturing Systems, N.V. 

(3) 
       
     VIGITEC, S.A. 

(4) 
       
     Tele Technique Generale, S.A. 

(5) 
       
     CMS Security Systems, Inc. 

D. 
       
     Hendrickx N.V. 

2. 
       
     Allied Research Corporation Limited, a U.K. Corporation 

3. 
       
     Energa Corporation 

4. 
       
     News/Sports Microwave Rental, Inc. 

5. 
       
     Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. 

6. 
       
     SeaSpace Corporation 

7. 
       
     MECAR USA, Inc. 

8. 
       
     Allied Technology, LLC 

9. 
       
     Global Microwave Systems, Inc. 

E-4 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 w25671exv23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 
Vienna, Virginia

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No.
33-101724) and Form S-8 (Nos. 2-96771, 33-25677, 33-41422, 33-45303, 33-57170, and 33-57172), of
The Allied Defense Group, Inc., of our reports dated October 5, 2006, relating to the
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules, and the effectiveness of The
Allied Defense Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, which appear in this Form
10-K. We are unable to and did not express an opinion in our report relating to the
effectiveness of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. s internal
control over financial reporting.

BDO Seidman, LLP

Bethesda, Maryland

October 5, 2006

E-5 

</EX-23>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 w25671exv23w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We have issued our report dated
September 28, 2006, accompanying the consolidated financial
statements and schedules incorporated in the annual Report of Allied Defense Group on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2004 and for each of two years in the
period ended December 31, 2004. We hereby consent to
the incorporation by reference of said report in the Registration Statements of Allied Defense
Group on Forms S-3 (File No. 33-101724, effective February 7, 2003) and S-8 (File No. 2-96771,
effective April 22, 1985, File No. 33-25677 effective December 14, 1988, File No. 33-41422
effective June 27, 1992, File No. 33-45303 effective January 24, 1993, File No. 33-57170 effective
January 19, 1994, and File No. 33-57172 effective January 19, 1994 and From S-8 filed March 20,
1998 and June 27, 2001).

/s/ Grant Thornton, LLP 

Baltimore, Maryland 
September 28, 2006 

E-6 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 w25671exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

CERTIFICATION  

I, John J. Marcello, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and we have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

/s/ John  J. Marcello

John J. Marcello,  

Date: October 4, 2006  
     Chief Executive Officer
and President  

E-7 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 w25671exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2  

CERTIFICATION  

I, Robert P. Dowski, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and we have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

/s/ Robert P. Dowski

Robert P. Dowski,  

Date: October 4, 2006  
     Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

E-8 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 8
 w25671exv32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

exv32 

Exhibit 32 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

In connection with the Report of The Allied Defense Group Inc. ( Allied ) on Form 10-K of the
period ending December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, the undersigned, John J. Marcello, as Chief Executive Officer and Robert
P. Dowski as Chief Financial Officer of Allied, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Allied. 

/s/ Robert P. Dowski

Robert P. Dowski

/s/ John J. Marcello.
  
 John
J. Marcello 

Chief Financial Officer

Chief Executive Officer 

October 4, 2006

October 4, 2006 

E-9 

</EX-32>

